<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	lang="en"
	xml:lang="en"
>
<head>
	<title>
		October 2018: Sevensi Text | KIBI Gô
	</title>
	<meta charset="UTF-8" />
	<base target="_top" />
	<style>
		*:Lang(zxx){ Font-Family:Inherit }
		aside[role=note]{ Margin:1EM 0 1EM -3EM ; Border:Thin Sienna
			Dashed ; Padding:1EM 1EM 1EM 4EM ; Color:Maroon ;
			Background:FloralWhite }
		div[role=note]{ Margin:1EM 0 ; Border:Thin Solid ;
			Padding:1EM ; Color:Black ; Background:Gainsboro }
		body{ Margin:Auto ; Padding:3EM ; Max-Width:43EM }
		body>article>header{ Margin-Top:1.85EM ; Padding-Top:0 }
		dd{ Margin:0 0 1EM 2EM }
		dl{ Margin:1EM 0 }
		dt{ Margin:1EM 0 .5EM ; Font-Weight:Bold }
		figcaption{ Margin:0 2EM ; Font-Style:Italic ;
			Text-Align:Center }
		figcaption>*:first-child{ Margin-Top:.5EM }
		figure{ Margin:1EM -3EM }
		figure.KEYBOARD{ Border:Thin Solid ; Padding:1EM ;
			Color:Black ; Background:WhiteSmoke ; Text-Align:Center
			; Overflow:Scroll }
		figure.KEYBOARD>figcaption{ Margin-Top:1EM }
		figure.KEYBOARD input:Nth-Of-Type(1):Checked~*
			tbody:Nth-Of-Type(2),figure.KEYBOARD
			input:Nth-Of-Type(2):Checked~*
			tbody:Nth-Of-Type(3),figure.KEYBOARD
			input:Nth-Of-Type(3):Checked~*
			tbody:Nth-Of-Type(4),figure.KEYBOARD
			input:Nth-Of-Type(4):Checked~*
			tbody:Nth-Of-Type(5){ Display:Table-Row-Group }
		figure.KEYBOARD table{ Table-Layout:Fixed ; Margin:1EM Auto 0
			; Border:Thin Silver Solid ; Border-Spacing:.25EM ;
			Width:30EM ; Color:Black ; Background:Gainsboro }
		figure.KEYBOARD tbody{ Font-Size:Inherit }
		figure.KEYBOARD tbody:First-Of-Type td{ Display:None }
		figure.KEYBOARD tbody:Nth-Of-Type(n+2){ Display:None }
		figure.KEYBOARD td{ Border:Thin DarkGrey Solid ; Padding:0
			.25EM ; Height:1EM ; Color:Black ; Background:White ;
			Font-Size:Inherit ; Line-Height:1.5EM }
		figure.KEYBOARD td.ON{ Color:White ; Background:Black }
		figure.KEYBOARD tr{ Font-Size:Inherit }
		figure.KEYBOARD u{ Text-Decoration:Underline Dotted }
		h1{ Margin:0 ; Font-Size:X-Large ; Font-Weight:Bold }
		h2{ Margin:0 0 .5EM ; Font-Size:Large ; Font-Weight:Bold }
		h2::BEFORE{ Display:Block ; Margin:2EM 0 ; Font-Size:Medium ;
			Font-Weight:Normal ; Opacity:.65 ; Text-Align:Center ;
			Content:"☙ ⁂ ❧" }
		hr{ Margin:1EM -1.5EM ; Border-Style:Solid None None ;
			Border-Color:CurrentColor Transparent Transparent ;
			Border-Width:Thin 0 0 ; Color:Inherit }
		header{ Margin:0 0 1.23EM ; Border-Style:None None Solid ;
			Border-Width:0 0 Thin ; Padding:.369EM 0 ;
			Font-Size:Small ; Text-Align:Left }
		header>p{ Margin:.369EM 0 }
		header>p::before{ Content:None }
		header>time{ Display:Block ; Margin:.369EM 0 ;
			Text-Align:Right }
		html{ Font-Family:"Noto Serif","Gentium\
			Plus","Gentium","Noto\ Sans Osage",Serif }
		i[lang$=-fonipa]{ Font-Style:Inherit }
		i.SO-CALLED{ Font-Style:Inherit }
		i.SO-CALLED::before{ Content:Open-Quote }
		i.SO-CALLED::after{ Content:Close-Quote }
		p{ Margin:0 ; Text-Align:Justify }
		p+p{ Text-Indent:2EM }
		table{ Margin:1EM Auto ; Border-Collapse:Collapse ;
			Text-Align:Center }
		td,th{ Border-Top:Thin Solid ; Padding:0 .5CH }
		th[scope=col]{ Border-Top:Hidden ; Border-Bottom:Solid }
		th[scope=row]{ Border-Right:Thin Solid }
		ul{ Margin:1EM 0 ; Padding:0 0 0 2EM }
		ul>li{ Margin:1EM 0 }
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<article>
		<header>
			<p>An Overview:</p>
			<h1>Sevensi Text</h1>
			<time datetime="2018-10">October 2018</time>
		</header>
		<aside role="note">
			<p>
				<strong>Note:</strong>
				This document contains a number of little&#x2010;used
					Latin characters and symbols, which may not
					appear correctly if you do not have
					appropriate fonts installed.
				<a href="https://www.google.com/get/noto/">The Noto
					fonts project</a> by Google should provide
					adequate coverage&#x2014;although it places
					the diacritics in odd locations sometimes.
				(Please <a href="https://glitch.social/@kibi">let
					me know</a> if you know of any other fonts
					with full Sevensi support!)
			</p>
		</aside>
		<p>
			Last month I published a blogpost describing <a href="
https://www.u2764.com/NFIC/2018-09-22/modern-7c/">a number of
				phonological and orthographic changes to Modern
				Sevensi</a>, a fictional language under provenance
				of <a href="https://www.LANGDEV.xyz/">the LANGDEV
				Project</a> and <a href="https://www.KIBI.family/"
				>the KIBI Jexr</a>.
			In the time since, I have further refined the
				orthographic representation of Sevensi words,
				resulting in a writing system which is quite
				distinct from what is described there.
			This blogpost outlines the new Sevensi orthography, and
				a number of other
				Sevensi&#x2010;text&#x2013;related topics.
		</p>
		<section id="alphabet">
			<h2>The Sevensi Alphabet</h2>
			<p>
				The Sevensi alphabet is divided roughly into four
					sections:
			</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					The 8 <b>consonants</b>: Ꜧ<wbr />Ɣ<wbr />Ƣ<wbr
						/>Ꝣ<wbr />Ꞵ<wbr />Ƿ<wbr />Ŋ<wbr />Ꜭ
				</li>
				<li>
					The 4 <b>consonant modifiers</b>: ◌̊<wbr
						/>◌̕<wbr />Ꝛ<wbr />Ȝ
				</li>
				<li>
					The 7 <b>vowels</b>: Ɩ<wbr />Ɛ<wbr />Ɑ<wbr
						/>Ʊ<wbr />Ɔ<wbr />𐒳<wbr />ꞏ
				</li>
				<li>
					The 2 <b>vowel modifiers</b>: ◌̃<wbr />Ʀ
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p>
				Each Sevensi syllable consists of one consonant,
					followed by any number of consonant modifiers,
					followed by one vowel, followed by any number
					of vowel modifiers.
				ꞏ is typically omitted, except when combined with
					˜, as ꞏ̃&#x2014;it is the <i class="SO-CALLED"
					>default</i> vowel for a syllable, making the
					Latin orthography share some similarities
					with an abugida.
			</p>
		</section>
		<section id="survey">
			<h2>Survey of the Alphabet</h2>
			<dl>
				<dt>Ꜧ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ꜧ</b> (lowercase: <i>ꜧ</i>) is the
							first consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>heng</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧɛŋ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼengh</i>).
						It represents the glottal stop, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/ʔ/</i>.
						In Modern Sevensi, the voiced and
							devoiced forms of Ꜧ are pronounced
							identically, but in Classical
							Sevensi the devoiced form was
							instead pronounced <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/h/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						In the past, I have considered a number
							of options for this letter,
							including the glottal stop letter
							itself (Ɂ).
						I opted for Ꜧ instead, which has been
							used for a variety of
							back&#x2010;of&#x2010;the<!--
							-->&#x2010;throat sounds in various
							languages, both because it is a
							named, non&#x2010;IPA letter, and
							because it resembles H, the English
							equivalent for the Classical
							devoiced form.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ɣ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ɣ</b> (lowercase: <i>ɣ</i>) is the
							second consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>gamma</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ɣȝɛ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>gye</i>).
						It represents the velar stop, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/g/</i> (voiced)
							or <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/k/</i>
							(devoiced).
					</p>
					<p>
						Traditionally, the letter Ɣ is used to
							represent the velar <em
							>fricative</em>, not stop.
						In Sevensi, this sound is instead
							represented by Ƣ.
						Ɣ paralells Ꞵ as a Romanized Greek
							letter used to represent the voiced
							and devoiced forms of its Latin
							equivalent.
					</p>
					<p>
						Sevensi uses a nontraditional shape for
							this character, with a straight
							right edge that parallels Ƣ.
						See the design notes further on in this
							document for more information.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ƣ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ƣ</b> (lowercase: <i>ƣ</i>) is the
							third consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>gha</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ƣɑ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>xra</i>).
						It represents the velar fricative, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/ɣ/</i> (voiced)
							or <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/x/</i> (devoiced).
					</p>
					<p>
						The letter Ƣ derives from the Latin
							letter Q, and was used to represent
							the same sound in a variety of
							Turkic languages.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ꝣ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ꝣ</b> (lowercase: <i>ꝣ</i>) is the
							fourth consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>zet</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꝣɩ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>zhi</i>).
						It represents the alveolo&#x2010;palatal
							sibilant fricative, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/ʑ/</i> (voiced)
							or <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/ɕ/</i>
							(devoiced).
					</p>
					<p>
						In the past I have used Ʒ to represent
							this letter, but this is too easily
							confusable with Ȝ.
						Ꝣ is a more visually&#x2010;distinct
							letter with a similar shape and
							purpose.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ꞵ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ꞵ</b> (lowercase: <i>ꞵ</i>) is the
							fifth consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>beta</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꞵȝɛ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>bye</i>).
						It represents the bilabial stop, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/b/</i> (voiced)
							or <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/p/</i>
							(devoiced).
					</p>
					<p>
						Traditionally, the letter Ꞵ is used to
							represent the bilabial <em
							>fricative</em>, not stop.
						This sound is not present in Sevensi.
						Ꞵ paralells Ɣ as a Romanized Greek
							letter used to represent the voiced
							and devoiced forms of its Latin
							equivalent.
						Its left&#x2010;hand descender and
							overall shape also parallels Ƿ.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ƿ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ƿ</b> (lowercase: <i>ƿ</i>) is the
							sixth consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>wynn</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ƿɑ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>va</i>).
						It represents the labiodental fricative,
							<i lang="zxx-fonipa">/v/</i>
							(voiced) or <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/f/</i>
							(devoiced).
					</p>
					<p>
						Ƿ is an Old English letter which
							represented <i lang="zxx-fonipa"
							>/w/</i>.
						It is used here by allusion with the
							related Old Norse letter, Ꝩ, which
							also was used to represent <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/u/</i>, and
							<i lang="zxx-fonipa">/v/</i>.
						It bears no relation to P.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ŋ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ŋ</b> (lowercase: <i>ŋ</i>) is the
							seventh consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>eng</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ŋɛ̃</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>nghen</i>).
						It represents the velar nasal, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/ŋ/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						Ŋ is a widespread and common character
							for representing this sound.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ꜭ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ꜭ</b> (lowercase: <i>ꜭ</i>) is the
							eighth consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>cuatrillo</i>,
							and its Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜭȝɛ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>jye</i>).
						It represents the alveolo&#x2010;palatal
							sibilant affricate, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/ʥ/</i> (voiced)
							or <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/ʨ/</i>
							(devoiced).
					</p>
					<p>
						Ꜭ is a letter invented by a Franciscan
							friar, Alonso de la Parra, for
							representing the velar ejective <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/kʼ/</i> in Mayan.
						A variant with a comma (Ꜯ) was used to
							represent the alveolar ejective
							affricate <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/tsʼ/</i>.
						The Sevensi usage of this letter draws
							mostly from the meaning of this
							variant Ꜯ form.
					</p>
					<p>
						The choice of Ꜭ also benefits from its
							similarity in appearance to J, the
							closest English approximation for
							its voiced form; the <a href="
http://www.unicode.org/L2/L2006/06121-n3082-tresillo.pdf">Unicode
							proposal for the letter</a>
							describes its design as follows:
						<q>Take capital J and small j and attach
							the flag of a 4 to it.</q>
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>◌̊</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>◌̊</b> is the first consonant modifier
							in the Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>ring above</i>,
							and its Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧ̊ẽ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼwen</i>).
						It represents the labiovelar
							approximant, <i lang="zxx-fonipa"
							>/w/</i> (voiced) or <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/ʍ/</i>
							(devoiced).
						In the context of Sevensi, it may be
							called the <i>labialization
							mark</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						This character derives from the shape of
							the Latin letter O, which has long
							been used to represent rounding in
							Sevensi.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>◌̕</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>◌̕</b> is the second consonant
							modifier in the Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>comma above
							right</i>, and its Sevensi name is
							<i lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜭ̕ɛ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>che</i>).
						It indicates that the syllable is
							devoiced.
						In the context of Sevensi, it may be
							called the <i>devoicing mark</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						An apostrophe or comma above is a common
							symbol for indicating devoicing or
							aspiration.
						In Modern Sevensi, devoicing affects not
							only the base consonant of the
							syllable, but also (if present) its
							labialization.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ꝛ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ꝛ</b> (lowercase: <i>ꝛ</i>) is the
							third consonant modifier in the
							Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is  <i
							>R&#x2010;rotunda</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧɩꜧꝛ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼiʼd</i>).
						It represents the alveolar tap <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/ɾ/</i> or trill
							<i lang="zxx-fonipa">/r/</i> (these
							are not distinguished in Sevensi).
						In the context of Sevensi, it may be
							called the <i>trill mark</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						In traditional Latin typography, Ꝛ is a
							typographical variant of R after
							rounded letters.
						It was chosen to represent the trill
							mark in Sevensi because of the way
							it visually appears to connect with
							the preceding character, bridging
							the gap between a diacritic and a
							distinct letter.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ȝ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ȝ</b> (lowercase: <i>ȝ</i>) is the
							fourth consonant modifier in the
							Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>yogh</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧȝɛ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼye</i>).
						It represents the palatal approximant, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/j/</i>.
						In the context of Sevensi, it may be
							called the <i>palatalization
							mark</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						Ȝ is an Old/Middle English letter which
							represented this sound.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ɩ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ɩ</b> (lowercase: <i>ɩ</i>) is the
							first vowel in the Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>iota</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧɩ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼi</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi iota, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/i/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						In Classical Sevensi, the iota was used
							to form diphthongs.
						By Modern Sevensi, this process
							developed into palatalization, but
							the iota persisted as an
							independent vowel.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ɛ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ɛ</b> (lowercase: <i>ɛ</i>) is the
							second vowel in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i
							>open&#x2010;E</i>, and its Sevensi
							name is <i lang="art-Latn-x-svi"
							>ꜧɛ</i> (Anglicized: <i>ʼe</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi front unrounded
							vowel, <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/ɛ/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						This letter reflects the IPA letter for
							its sound.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ɑ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ɑ</b> (lowercase: <i>ɑ</i>) is the
							third vowel in the Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>alpha</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧɑ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼa</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi back unrounded
							vowel, <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/ɑ/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						This letter reflects the IPA letter for
							its sound.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ʊ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ʊ</b> (lowercase: <i>ʊ</i>) is the
							fourth vowel in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>upsilon</i>, and
							its Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧʊ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼu</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi high rounded
							vowel, <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/u/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						Diphthongs with Ʊ are presumed to be the
							original forms of the Classical
							Sevensi rounded vowels.
						This letter&#x2010;shape was chosen as a
							compliment to Ɩ, which was also
							used to form diphthongs.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ɔ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ɔ</b> (lowercase: <i>ɔ</i>) is the
							fifth vowel in the Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>open&#x2010;O</i>,
							and its Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧɔ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼo</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi low rounded
							vowel, <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/ɔ/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						This letter reflects the IPA letter for
							its sound.
						It is the result of a merger between two
							Classical Sevensi rounded vowels, Ꞷ
							and Ɵ.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>𐒳</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>𐒳</b> (lowercase: <i>𐓛</i>) is the
							sixth vowel in the Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>lambda</i>, and
							its Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧ𐓛</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼl</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi syllabic L, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/l/</i>
							(regular), <i lang="zxx-fonipa"
							>/ɫ/</i> (labialized), or
							<i lang="zxx-fonipa">/n/</i>
							(nasal).
					</p>
					<p>
						In a previous Classical Sevensi
							orthography, a lambda with stroke
							(ƛ) was used to represent the
							syllabic sequence <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-osv">đ̕𐓛</i>,
							from which this letter developed.
						This, in turn, was inspired by American
							Phoneticist usage.
					</p>
					<p>
						Latin lambda does not exist in Unicode,
							so the visually&#x2010;similar
							Osage letter is used instead.
						Note that the capital form resembles a
							turned Y and not a Greek Λ.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>ꞏ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>ꞏ</b> is the seventh vowel in the
							Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>middle dot</i>,
							and its Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧȝꞏ̃</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼyn</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi neutral vowel,
							<i lang="zxx-fonipa">/ʌ/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						Note that the Unicode encoding for this
							character is U+A78F ꞏ LATIN LETTER
							SINOLOGICAL DOT and <em>not</em>
							U+00B7 · MIDDLE DOT (which is a
							symbol, not a letter).
						U+02D1 ˑ MODIFIER LETTER HALF TRIANGULAR
							COLON was considered, but rejected
							on account of the fact that it is
							generally the wrong shape and as a
							vowel, this is not a modifier
							letter.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>◌̃</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>◌̃</b> is the first vowel modifier in
							the Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>tilde</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧ𐓛̃ꜧ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼlnʼ</i>).
						It indicates that the syllable is
							nasalized.
						In the context of Sevensi, it may be
							called the <i>nasalization mark</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						◌̃ is a common and widely&#x2010;used
							mark for indicating nasalization.
						It resembles a small N.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ʀ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ʀ</b> (lowercase: <i>ʀ</i>) is the
							second vowel modifier in the
							Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>Yr</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧɑʀꜧɔ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼarʼo</i>).
						It represents the alveolar approximant,
							<i lang="zxx-fonipa">/ɹ/</i>.
						In the context of Sevensi, it may be
							called the <i>rhotic mark</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						Ʀ is the Latin transcription for an Old
							Norse letter which signified a
							rhotic consonant at the end of
							words.
						It holds a similar significance in
							Sevensi.
					</p>
				</dd>
			</dl>
		</section>
		<section id="archaic">
			<h2>Archaïc Letters</h2>
			<p>
				Classical and Middle Sevensi had a
					somewhat different set of available
					sounds.
				The additional 4 letters Þ<wbr />Ɱ<wbr
					/>Ɵ<wbr />Ꞷ can be used to express these as
					follows:
			</p>
			<dl>
				<dt>Þ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Þ</b> (lowercase: <i>þ</i>) is the
							ninth consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>thorn</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">þɔ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>dho</i>).
						It represents the alveolar stop, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/d/</i> (voiced)
							or <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/t/</i>
							(devoiced).
					</p>
					<p>
						Þ is an Old and Middle English letter
							which represented <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/θ/</i> and <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/ð/</i>.
						As with Ɣ and Ꞵ, it is a letter which
							traditionally represents a
							fricative but which is used in
							Sevensi to represent a
							voiced/devoiced pair of stops.
					</p>
					<p>
						In Classical Sevensi texts, Þ is
							typically collated after Ƣ (before
							Ꝣ).
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ɱ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ɱ</b> (lowercase: <i>ɱ</i>) is the
							tenth consonant in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>meng</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ɱɑ̃</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>man</i>).
						It represents the bilabial nasal, <i
							lang="zxx-fonipa">/m/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						Ɱ is simply a modified version of the
							traditional Latin letter for this
							sound, M, to better match the shape
							and appearance of the other
							consonants.
					</p>
					<p>
						In Classical Sevensi texts, Ɱ is
							typically collated after Ŋ (before
							Ꜭ).
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ɵ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ɵ</b> (lowercase: <i>ɵ</i>) is the
							eighth vowel in the Sevensi
							alphabet.
						Its English name is <i
							>barred&#x2010;O</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧɵ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼø</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi front rounded
							vowel, <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/o/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						In Classical Sevensi, Ɵ was the rounded
							pair for the unrounded Ɛ.
						It's letter shape is a <i
							class="SO-CALLED">fully closed</i>
							E, in contrast to the <i
							class="SO-CALLED">open</i> Ɛ.
					</p>
					<p>
						In Classical Sevensi texts, Ɵ is
							typically collated after Ɛ (before
							Ɑ).
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ꞷ</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<b>Ꞷ</b> (lowercase: <i>ꞷ</i>) is the
							ninth vowel in the Sevensi alphabet.
						Its English name is <i>omega</i>, and its
							Sevensi name is <i
							lang="art-Latn-x-svi">ꜧꞷ</i>
							(Anglicized: <i>ʼå</i>).
						It represents the Sevensi back rounded
							vowel, <i lang="zxx-fonipa">/ɒ/</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						In Classical Sevensi, Ꞷ was the rounded
							pair for the unrounded Ɑ.
						It was deemed suitable that <i
							class="SO-CALLED">omega</i> be the
							Latin letter for the rounded pairing of <i class="SO-CALLED"
							>alpha</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						In Classical Sevensi texts, Ꞷ is
							typically collated after Ɑ (before
							Ʊ).
					</p>
				</dd>
			</dl>
		</section>
		<section id="design" class="yes">
			<h2>Letter and Script Design</h2>
			<dl>
				<dt>Broad design goals.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						Sevensi phonology can differ quite
							dramatically from that of English
							or other Latin&#x2010;script
							languages.
						Consequently, one of the primary goals
							for the Sevensi script was <em
							>visual distinctiveness</em>; none
							of the letters are a part of the
							Basic Latin set.
						The Sevensi script brings a number of
							old, largely&#x2010;unused Latin
							characters back into the scenery;
							nevertheless, it remains a Latin
							script, and is designed for use
							with Latin typographic traditions
							like capitalization and italics.
					</p>
					<p>
						In previous Sevensi scripts, voiced and
							devoiced sounds were given separate
							letters, as is typical for Latin
							scripts.
						However, this approach was not a good
							match for Sevensi phonology, which
							approaches voicing on the level of
							the syllable, not letter.
						Furthermore, supporting devoiced letters
							would require increasing the
							character count to (at minimum) 25,
							making the task of creäting ASCII
							equivalents for each letter more
							difficult.
						There is not, for example, a
							straightforward answer as to what
							the devoiced pairing for H or X
							should be.
					</p>
					<p>
						The Sevensi Latin script has been
							designed such that each consonant
							has a descender.
						In contrast, modifiers and vowels should
							<em>not</em> descend below the
							baseline.
						This visually aids in splitting up
							Sevensi words into their syllable
							components.
					</p>
					<p>
						The consonant modifiers ◌̊◌̕ꝚȜ bear a
							visual similarity to the numerals
							0123; this is a coïncidence, but
							may be useful in remembering their
							order.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Script status and Unicode.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						The script outlined above is described
							as <i class="SO-CALLED"
							>Romanized</i> and <i
							class="SO-CALLED">Latin</i> to
							distinguish it from the syllabic
							alphabetical Sevensi script
							currently in development.
						Most of its characters can be clearly
							unified with existing Latin
							characters already encoded into
							Unicode.
						There are two exceptions:
					</p>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>
								The character 𐒳, whose shape
									is correct but is not
									presently encoded as
									Latin; the codepoints
									used in this document are
									U+104B3 𐒳 OSAGE CAPITAL
									LETTER AH and U+104DB 𐓛
									OSAGE SMALL LETTER AH.
								True Latin lambdas, with the
									same shape as the Osage
									characters, would be
									preferred, as the Osage
									letter represents an
									entirely different sound.
								The private&#x2010;use
									characters U+101061 and
									U+101062 are recommended
									for the capital and small
									forms of these characters
									in situations where the
									Osage characters prove
									undesirable.
							</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>
								The character Ɣ, which is a
									Latin character, but has
									the incorrect shape:
								In Sevensi typography, this
									character should appear
									as a reversed Ꝩ, with
									a straight (not looped)
									descender on the
									right&#x2010;hand side.
								This, too, should probably
									have a separate encoding,
									the unification with Ɣ
									beïng a technical stopgap
									measure.
								(In particular, the Sevensi
									Ɣ should <em>not</em> be
									used for phonetic
									transcription, where it
									might be confused with Y.)
								The private&#x2010;use
									characters U+101063 and
									U+101064 are recommended
									for the capital and
									small forms of these
									characters in situations
									where unification proves
									undesirable.
							</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
					<p>
						Of course, given the fact that the
							Romanized Sevensi script includes
							<em>no</em> characters from Basic
							Latin, and that the extended Latin
							characters it <em>does</em> use
							often take on a subtly different
							meaning, it is an open question as
							to whether it is a <i
							class="SO-CALLED">true</i> Latin
							script at all, and not merely <i
							class="SO-CALLED"
							>Latin&#x2010;derived</i>.
						This is a question for the Unicode
							Consortium and other classifiers of
							scripts, and should take into
							account both the traditions of
							Latin typesetting as well as the
							principles of Sevensi character
							design which are outlined here, and
							which will doubtlessly continue to
							evolve over the language's lifetime.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Casing.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						Only the consonants can appear at the
							beginning of words; consequently, a
							minimal font need only support
							capital forms for the consonants.
						However, the other letters may appear in
							capitalized or small&#x2010;capital
							form in titles or other specialized
							applications.
					</p>
					<p>
						Combining characters are, as is typical
							for Latin scripts, not cased, and
							neither is ꞏ (which is largely just
							a placeholder character for use
							with ◌̃).
						All other characters have capital and
							small forms.
					</p>
					<p>
						By convention, Sevensi capitalizes the
							first letter of each sentence and
							of nouns which utilize the proper
							article <i lang="art-Latn-x-svi"
							>ꜭ̕</i>.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>The consonants.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						The Sevensi consonants can roughly be
							categorized into two categories:
							consonants with hooks (Ꜧ, Ꝣ, Ŋ, Ꜭ,
							Ɱ) and consonants with straight
							descenders (Ɣ, Ƣ, Ꞵ, Ƿ, Þ).
					</p>
					<p>
						The right&#x2010;hand components of Ꜧ,
							Ŋ, Ꜭ, and Ɱ should all be
							indentical, and match that of the
							Basic Latin J; the capital of Ŋ
							should resemble N and not its
							lowercase form.
						The hooks of all of these characters
							should drop below, and not rest
							upon, the baseline, even in their
							capital forms.
					</p>
					<p>
						The hook of Ꝣ should match those on the
							other hooked characters; this is
							somewhat smaller and more subtle
							than is typical for the character.
						Indeed, Ꝣ might be described as a C, Z,
							and J stacked on top of one another.
						The height of capital Ꝣ should not
							exceed that of the other letters;
							the height of small Ꝣ should match
							that of small Ꞵ.
						Small Ꝣ may be given a less pronounced
							upper curl to distinguish it from
							its capital form.
					</p>
					<p>
						The decenders of Ɣ, Ƣ, Ꞵ, Ƿ, and Þ should
							all drop below the baseline an
							equal amount and have an identical
							appearance, in both the capital
							and small forms; Ƣ, Ƿ, and Þ in
							particular should always be written
							with their vertical strokes
							dropping below the baseline.
					</p>
					<p>
						Ɣ should be rendered with a straight
							right edge and no loop, resembling
							a reversed Ꝩ, with the vertex on
							the baseline.
						Compare the the lowercase Greek letter,
							which approximates this shape at a
							slant, especially in mathematical
							usage and italic fonts.
						The left&#x2010;hand branch may be either
							straight or curl downward.
					</p>
					<p>
						The capital Ꞵ should resemble B with a
							left&#x2010;hand descender; the
							lowercase form may be open at the
							bottom or closed, and should have a
							rounded top.
						The height of small Ꞵ should match Ꝣ,
							both of which may be taller than
							other lowercase letters.
					</p>
					<p>
						Care should be taken to distinguish Ƿ and
							Þ; the latter should have an
							ascender in its small form and its
							bowl should not exceed one
							X&#x2010;height regardless of case.
						Captial Þ should resemble capital Ꞵ minus
							its upper bowl.
						Þ may be open at the top (with a more
							Y&#x2010;like appearance) or closed;
							Ƿ, on the other hand, must always
							be closed.
					</p>
					<p>
						The straight middle&#x2010;crossbars of
							capital Ꜧ, Ꝣ, Ꞵ, and Ꜭ should all
							have the same height; notably, the
							flag of capital Ꜭ should <em
							>not</em> rest on the baseline
							(unlike with its small form).
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>The consonant modifiers.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						◌̊ should be placed above the hump of
							small Ꜧ, not above the entire
							character, reflecting its position
							for Ŋ.
					</p>
					<p>
						◌̕ should always be written <em>next
							to</em> (and not above or below) ◌̊.
						The former may influence the position of
							the latter (by shifting it to the
							left).
						For characters lacking ◌̊, ◌̕ may
							instead take the shape of ◌̓, beïng
							centred on its base character
							rather than aligned with the right
							edge&#x2014;this is a
							font&#x2010;level decision.
					</p>
					<p>
						The capital Ꝛ should follow the shape of
							a capital R, minus its left
							downward stroke; small Ꝛ should
							resemble a small numeral 2 moreso
							than its capital form.
						Its shape should <em>not</em> copy small
							Ʀ.
					</p>
					<p>
						The hook of Ȝ should match the hooks of
							the consonant letters (dropping
							below the baseline even in the
							capital form); the upper half of
							the character should match Ꝛ in
							both captial and small forms.
						Visually, Ȝ should take the appearance of
							Ꝛ&#x2010;with&#x2010;hook.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>The vowels.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						Unlike the consonants, vowels do not have
							descenders.
						With the exception of 𐒳, the uppercase
							and lowercase forms have the same
							shape.
						This contrasts with the Greek versions
							of these characters, where the
							capital form can differ starkly
							from the small one.
					</p>
					<p>
						𐒳 is a Latin lambda, although its shape
							more closely resembles a reversed,
							turned Y than the Greek letter.
						The small form should be drawn with
							straight lines, and the ascender
							should <em>not</em> terminate in a
							hook.
					</p>
					<p>
						ꞏ should be drawn somewhat larger than
							the dots in the period (.), colon
							(:), or interpunct (·), and the top
							of the dot should align with the
							X&#x2010;height of the font.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>The vowel modifiers.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						◌̃ should be written at the same height
							for all vowels of the same case; in
							the case of small (but <em>not</em>
							capital) 𐒳, it will cross the
							ascender.
					</p>
					<p>
						When it is combined with ꞏ, ◌̃ may
							increase the overal width of the
							character; ꞏ̃ should have the same
							width as the small tilde on its own
							(˜).
					</p>
					<p>
						Capital Ʀ should be rendered as Þ with a
							tail; this tail <em>may</em> (but
							need not) cross the baseline so
							long as it does not have the same
							shape as either of the consonant
							descenders (instead extending
							out at a diagonal and/or curling
							upward).
						Small Ʀ should be rendered as a small
							capital R (with no descender).
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Punctuation.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						Sevensi utilizes standard Latin spacing
							and punctuation, leaning closer to
							the English tradition than French.
						Single curly quotes (‘’) are preferred
							at the top level for dialogue;
							double angle quotes («») may be
							used when directly quoting from
							a known (usually, printed) source.
						Parentheses (()) and brackets ([]) have
							their usual meanings; curly braces
							({}) may be used to contain a list
							of items, separated by commas.
						Bangs (!) and queries (?) are generally
							superfluous and need not be
							employed.
						The pipe (|) may be used as a
							reverse&#x2010;colon.
					</p>
				</dd>
			</dl>
		</section>
		<section>
			<h2>Other Alphabets</h2>
			<dl>
				<dt>The ASCII Alphabet.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						There are ASCII equivalents for all of
							the Sevensi letters and modifier
							marks.
						The ASCII alphabet, in the same order as
							the above, is: H<wbr />G<wbr
							/>X<wbr />Z<wbr />B<wbr />V<wbr
							/>N<wbr />J // W<wbr />'<wbr
							/>D<wbr />Y // I<wbr />E<wbr
							/>A<wbr />U<wbr />O<wbr />L<wbr />-
							// ~<wbr />R.
						Because the meaning of each Sevensi
							letter can be quite different from
							the traditional interpretation of
							its ASCII form, using the native
							(non&#x2013;Basic Latin)
							representation is preferred wherever
							possible.
					</p>
					<p>
						The ASCII representations of the archaïc
							characters are T<wbr />M // %<wbr
							/>@.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>The Anglicized Alphabet.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						In order to make Sevensi words easier to
							parse for non&#x2010;native
							speakers, it is suggested that
							specialized alphabets be used when
							incorporating Sevensi words into
							other languages.
						The Anglicized Alphabet is more suitable
							than the ASCII representation for
							writing Sevensi words in English.
					</p>
					<p>
						Consonants (with the exception of Ŋ,
							which is always voiced in Sevensi)
							have separate voiced and devoiced
							equivalents.
						These are as follows:
					</p>
					<table>
						<thead>
							<tr>
								<th scope="col">Sevensi</th>
								<th scope="col">Voiced</th>
								<th scope="col">Devoiced</th>
							</tr>
						</thead>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꜧ</th>
								<td>ʼ</td><td>ʼh</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɣ</th>
								<td>G</td><td>K</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ƣ</th>
								<td>Xr</td><td>Kh</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꝣ</th>
								<td>Zh</td><td>Sh</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꞵ</th>
								<td>B</td><td>P</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ƿ</th>
								<td>V</td><td>F</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ŋ</th>
								<td colspan="2">Ngh</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꜭ</th>
								<td>J</td><td>Ch</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
					<p>
						The remaining characters have
							straightforward equivalents:
					</p>
					<table>
						<thead>
							<tr>
								<th scope="col">Sevensi</th>
								<th scope="col">Anglicized</th>
							</tr>
						</thead>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">◌̊</th>
								<td>W</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꝛ</th>
								<td>D</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ȝ</th>
								<td>Y</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɩ</th>
								<td>I</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɛ</th>
								<td>E</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɑ</th>
								<td>A</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ʊ</th>
								<td>U</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɔ</th>
								<td>O</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">𐒳</th>
								<td>L</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">ꞏ</th>
								<td>(Æ)</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">◌̃</th>
								<td>N</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ʀ</th>
								<td>R</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
					<p>
						The letter ꞏ is usually not transcribed,
							but Æ is the accepted letter should
							the occasion arise.
					</p>
					<p>
						There are also Anglicizations for the
							archaïc Sevensi consonants:
					</p>
					<table>
						<thead>
							<tr>
								<th scope="col">Sevensi</th>
								<th scope="col">Voiced</th>
								<th scope="col">Devoiced</th>
							</tr>
						</thead>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Þ</th>
								<td>Dh</td><td>T</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɱ</th>
								<td colspan="2">M</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
					<p>
						…And vowels (drawing from the
							Dano&#x2010;Norwegian alphabet):
					</p>
					<table>
						<thead>
							<tr>
								<th scope="col">Sevensi</th>
								<th scope="col">Anglicized</th>
							</tr>
						</thead>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɵ</th>
								<td>Ø</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꞷ</th>
								<td>Å</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
				</dd>
				<dt>The Hex Alphabet.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						Because Sevensi has a rigid syllable
							structure, the number of characters
							in the alphabet can be reduced by
							reüsing consonants as vowel
							modifiers and vowels as consonant
							modifiers.
						The minimum number of characters under
							such a system is 8 consonants + 7
							vowels = 15.
						By adding a space character, we arrive at
							a lossless transformation of Sevensi
							words and phrases into just 16 ASCII
							characters, which can then be
							easily interpreted as hexidecimal
							digits by a computer program.
						As the maximal Sevensi syllable 8
						 	characters long, this means that any
							Sevensi syllable can easily be
							interpreted as a 32-bit integer
							(padded with spaces) under this
							system.
					</p>
					<p>
						The letters of the Hex alphabet, as they
							correspond to the native/ASCII
							ones, are: H<wbr />G<wbr />R<wbr
							/>Z<wbr />B<wbr />V<wbr />N<wbr />J
							// U<wbr />'<wbr />L<wbr />I //
							I<wbr />E<wbr />A<wbr />U<wbr
							/>O<wbr />L<wbr />' // N<wbr />R.
						The sixteen letters, in order, are:
							&lt;space&gt;<wbr />H<wbr />G<wbr
							/>R<wbr />Z<wbr />B<wbr />V<wbr
							/>N<wbr />J<wbr />U<wbr />'<wbr
							/>L<wbr />I<wbr />E<wbr />A<wbr />O.
						The duplicates are: R and N, which are
							consonants if they precede a vowel
							or consonant modifier, and vowel
							modifiers if they precede a
							potential consonant; and U, ', L,
							and I, which are consonant
							modifiers if they precede a
							potential vowel, and vowels
							otherwise.
					</p>
					<p>
						Vocalic ' cannot be dropped in the Hex
							alphabet representation, and archaïc
							characters are not supported.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Summary.</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						The following table summarizes each
							Sevensi letter and its various
							representations:
					</p>
					<table>
						<thead>
							<tr>
								<th scope="col">Sevensi</th>
								<th scope="col">ASCII</th>
								<th colspan="2" scope="col"
									>Anglicized</th>
								<th scope="col">Hex</th>
							</tr>
						</thead>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꜧ</th>
								<td>H</td>
								<td>ʼ</td><td>ʼh</td>
								<td>H</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɣ</th>
								<td>G</td>
								<td>G</td><td>K</td>
								<td>G</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ƣ</th>
								<td>X</td>
								<td>Xr</td><td>Kh</td>
								<td>R</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꝣ</th>
								<td>Z</td>
								<td>Zh</td><td>Sh</td>
								<td>Z</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꞵ</th>
								<td>B</td>
								<td>B</td><td>P</td>
								<td>B</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ƿ</th>
								<td>V</td>
								<td>V</td><td>F</td>
								<td>V</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ŋ</th>
								<td>N</td>
								<td colspan="2">Ngh</td>
								<td>N</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꜭ</th>
								<td>J</td>
								<td>J</td><td>Ch</td>
								<td>J</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">◌̊</th>
								<td>W</td>
								<td colspan="2">W</td>
								<td>U</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">◌̕</th>
								<td>'</td>
								<td colspan="2"></td>
								<td>'</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꝛ</th>
								<td>D</td>
								<td colspan="2">D</td>
								<td>L</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ȝ</th>
								<td>Y</td>
								<td colspan="2">Y</td>
								<td>I</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɩ</th>
								<td>I</td>
								<td colspan="2">I</td>
								<td>I</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɛ</th>
								<td>E</td>
								<td colspan="2">E</td>
								<td>E</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɑ</th>
								<td>A</td>
								<td colspan="2">A</td>
								<td>A</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ʊ</th>
								<td>U</td>
								<td colspan="2">U</td>
								<td>U</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɔ</th>
								<td>O</td>
								<td colspan="2">O</td>
								<td>O</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">𐒳</th>
								<td>L</td>
								<td colspan="2">L</td>
								<td>L</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">ꞏ</th>
								<td>-</td>
								<td colspan="2">(Æ)</td>
								<td>'</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">◌̃</th>
								<td>~</td>
								<td colspan="2">N</td>
								<td>N</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ʀ</th>
								<td>R</td>
								<td colspan="2">R</td>
								<td>R</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Þ</th>
								<td>T</td>
								<td>Dh</td><td>T</td>
								<td></td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɱ</th>
								<td>M</td>
								<td colspan="2">M</td>
								<td></td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ɵ</th>
								<td>C</td>
								<td colspan="2">Ø</td>
								<td></td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<th scope="row">Ꞷ</th>
								<td>Q</td>
								<td colspan="2">Å</td>
								<td></td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
				</dd>
			</dl>
		</section>
		<section id="keyboards">
			<h2>Sevensi Keyboards</h2>
			<p>
				With the new Sevensi alphabet, naturally new
					Sevensi keyboards are required.
				These layouts are given below:
			</p>
			<figure class="KEYBOARD">
				<input id="key1.mod1" name="key1mod" type="radio"
					checked="" />
				<label for="key1.mod1">Normal</label>
				<input id="key1.mod2" name="key1mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key1.mod2">Shift</label>
				<input id="key1.mod3" name="key1mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key1.mod3">Option</label>
				<input id="key1.mod4" name="key1mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key1.mod4">Alt</label>
				<table>
					<tbody hidden="">
						<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						></tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">0</td>
							<td colspan="4">1</td>
							<td colspan="4">2</td>
							<td colspan="4">3</td>
							<td colspan="4">4</td>
							<td colspan="4">5</td>
							<td colspan="4">6</td>
							<td colspan="4">7</td>
							<td colspan="4">8</td>
							<td colspan="4">9</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">−</td>
							<td colspan="4">+</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌫</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">ŋ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꜭ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƿ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꝛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʀ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʊ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɔ</td>
							<td colspan="4">𐓛</td>
							<td colspan="4">=</td>
							<td colspan="4">&lt;</td>
							<td colspan="4">&gt;</td>
							<td colspan="4">±</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꜧ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꝣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꞵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ȝ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꞏ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɩ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɑ</td>
							<td colspan="4">◌̊</td>
							<td colspan="4">◌̕</td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">[</td>
							<td colspan="4">]</td>
							<td colspan="4">,</td>
							<td colspan="4">.</td>
							<td colspan="4">–</td>
							<td colspan="4">‘</td>
							<td colspan="4">’</td>
							<td colspan="4">(</td>
							<td colspan="4">)</td>
							<td colspan="4">◌̃</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">∅</td>
							<td colspan="4">!</td>
							<td colspan="4">?</td>
							<td colspan="4">#</td>
							<td colspan="4">%</td>
							<td colspan="4">©</td>
							<td colspan="4">™</td>
							<td colspan="4">¥</td>
							<td colspan="4">$</td>
							<td colspan="4">@</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">÷</td>
							<td colspan="4">×</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌫</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇤</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ŋ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꜭ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƿ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꝛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʀ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʊ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɔ</td>
							<td colspan="4">𐒳</td>
							<td colspan="4">≈</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">∋</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꜧ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꝣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꞵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ȝ</td>
							<td colspan="4">|</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɩ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɑ</td>
							<td colspan="4">◌̌</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʼ</td>
							<td colspan="7">⌤</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">{</td>
							<td colspan="4">}</td>
							<td colspan="4">;</td>
							<td colspan="4">:</td>
							<td colspan="4">—</td>
							<td colspan="4">“</td>
							<td colspan="4">”</td>
							<td colspan="4">⟨</td>
							<td colspan="4">⟩</td>
							<td colspan="4">`</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td colspan="5">⎇</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">☓</td>
							<td colspan="4">†</td>
							<td colspan="4">¶</td>
							<td colspan="4">⁜</td>
							<td colspan="4">/</td>
							<td colspan="4">®</td>
							<td colspan="4">þ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɱ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꞷ</td>
							<td colspan="4">θ</td>
							<td colspan="4">¬</td>
							<td colspan="4">&amp;</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">n</td>
							<td colspan="4">x</td>
							<td colspan="4">j</td>
							<td colspan="4">v</td>
							<td colspan="4">d</td>
							<td colspan="4">r</td>
							<td colspan="4">u</td>
							<td colspan="4">o</td>
							<td colspan="4">l</td>
							<td colspan="4">≠</td>
							<td colspan="4">≪</td>
							<td colspan="4">≫</td>
							<td colspan="4">^</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">h</td>
							<td colspan="4">g</td>
							<td colspan="4">z</td>
							<td colspan="4">b</td>
							<td colspan="4">y</td>
							<td colspan="4">-</td>
							<td colspan="4">i</td>
							<td colspan="4">e</td>
							<td colspan="4">a</td>
							<td colspan="4">w</td>
							<td colspan="4">'</td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">⟦</td>
							<td colspan="4">⟧</td>
							<td colspan="4">*</td>
							<td colspan="4">…</td>
							<td colspan="4">⁓</td>
							<td colspan="4">«</td>
							<td colspan="4">»</td>
							<td colspan="4">⸨</td>
							<td colspan="4">⸩</td>
							<td colspan="4">~</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20">_</td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">◊</td>
							<td colspan="4">‡</td>
							<td colspan="4">§</td>
							<td colspan="4">※</td>
							<td colspan="4">\</td>
							<td colspan="4">🄯</td>
							<td colspan="4">Þ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɱ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꞷ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Θ</td>
							<td colspan="4">√</td>
							<td colspan="4">∘</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇤</td>
							<td colspan="4">N</td>
							<td colspan="4">X</td>
							<td colspan="4">J</td>
							<td colspan="4">V</td>
							<td colspan="4">D</td>
							<td colspan="4">R</td>
							<td colspan="4">U</td>
							<td colspan="4">O</td>
							<td colspan="4">L</td>
							<td colspan="4">≉</td>
							<td colspan="4">⇐</td>
							<td colspan="4">⇒</td>
							<td colspan="4">∌</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">H</td>
							<td colspan="4">G</td>
							<td colspan="4">Z</td>
							<td colspan="4">B</td>
							<td colspan="4">Y</td>
							<td colspan="4">‐</td>
							<td colspan="4">I</td>
							<td colspan="4">E</td>
							<td colspan="4">A</td>
							<td colspan="4">W</td>
							<td colspan="4">"</td>
							<td colspan="7">⌤</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">⦃</td>
							<td colspan="4">⦄</td>
							<td colspan="4">⁂</td>
							<td colspan="4">∞</td>
							<td colspan="4">⸺</td>
							<td colspan="4">‹</td>
							<td colspan="4">›</td>
							<td colspan="4">⟪</td>
							<td colspan="4">⟫</td>
							<td colspan="4">∼</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="5">⎇</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20">_</td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
				<figcaption>
					Sevensi Roman keyboard layout
				</figcaption>
			</figure>
			<figure class="KEYBOARD">
				<input id="key2.mod1" name="key2mod" type="radio"
					checked="" />
				<label for="key2.mod1">Normal</label>
				<input id="key2.mod2" name="key2mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key2.mod2">Shift</label>
				<input id="key2.mod3" name="key2mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key2.mod3">Option</label>
				<input id="key2.mod4" name="key2mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key2.mod4">Alt</label>
				<table>
					<tbody hidden="">
						<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						></tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">`</td>
							<td colspan="4">1</td>
							<td colspan="4">2</td>
							<td colspan="4">3</td>
							<td colspan="4">4</td>
							<td colspan="4">5</td>
							<td colspan="4">6</td>
							<td colspan="4">7</td>
							<td colspan="4">8</td>
							<td colspan="4">9</td>
							<td colspan="4">0</td>
							<td colspan="4">-</td>
							<td colspan="4">=</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌫</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">q</td>
							<td colspan="4">w</td>
							<td colspan="4">e</td>
							<td colspan="4">r</td>
							<td colspan="4">t</td>
							<td colspan="4">y</td>
							<td colspan="4">u</td>
							<td colspan="4">i</td>
							<td colspan="4">o</td>
							<td colspan="4">p</td>
							<td colspan="4">[</td>
							<td colspan="4">]</td>
							<td colspan="4">\</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">a</td>
							<td colspan="4">s</td>
							<td colspan="4">d</td>
							<td colspan="4">f</td>
							<td colspan="4">g</td>
							<td colspan="4">h</td>
							<td colspan="4">j</td>
							<td colspan="4">k</td>
							<td colspan="4">l</td>
							<td colspan="4">;</td>
							<td colspan="4">'</td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">z</td>
							<td colspan="4">x</td>
							<td colspan="4">c</td>
							<td colspan="4">v</td>
							<td colspan="4">b</td>
							<td colspan="4">n</td>
							<td colspan="4">m</td>
							<td colspan="4">,</td>
							<td colspan="4">.</td>
							<td colspan="4">/</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">~</td>
							<td colspan="4">!</td>
							<td colspan="4">@</td>
							<td colspan="4">#</td>
							<td colspan="4">$</td>
							<td colspan="4">%</td>
							<td colspan="4">^</td>
							<td colspan="4">&amp;</td>
							<td colspan="4">*</td>
							<td colspan="4">(</td>
							<td colspan="4">)</td>
							<td colspan="4">_</td>
							<td colspan="4">+</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌫</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇤</td>
							<td colspan="4">Q</td>
							<td colspan="4">W</td>
							<td colspan="4">E</td>
							<td colspan="4">R</td>
							<td colspan="4">T</td>
							<td colspan="4">Y</td>
							<td colspan="4">U</td>
							<td colspan="4">I</td>
							<td colspan="4">O</td>
							<td colspan="4">P</td>
							<td colspan="4">{</td>
							<td colspan="4">}</td>
							<td colspan="4">|</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">A</td>
							<td colspan="4">S</td>
							<td colspan="4">D</td>
							<td colspan="4">F</td>
							<td colspan="4">G</td>
							<td colspan="4">H</td>
							<td colspan="4">J</td>
							<td colspan="4">K</td>
							<td colspan="4">L</td>
							<td colspan="4">:</td>
							<td colspan="4">"</td>
							<td colspan="7">⌤</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">Z</td>
							<td colspan="4">X</td>
							<td colspan="4">C</td>
							<td colspan="4">V</td>
							<td colspan="4">B</td>
							<td colspan="4">N</td>
							<td colspan="4">M</td>
							<td colspan="4">&lt;</td>
							<td colspan="4">&gt;</td>
							<td colspan="4">?</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td colspan="5">⎇</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4"><u>`</u></td>
							<td colspan="4">¬</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꞷ</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɵ</td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>ˇ</u></td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>¨</u></td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>´</u></td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>˜</u></td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>˚</u></td>
							<td colspan="4">–</td>
							<td colspan="4">≈</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">«</td>
							<td colspan="4">»</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʀ</td>
							<td colspan="4">þ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ȝ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʊ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɩ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɔ</td>
							<td colspan="4">θ</td>
							<td colspan="4">‘</td>
							<td colspan="4">’</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꞏ</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɑ</td>
							<td colspan="4">æ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꝛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꜧ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꜭ</td>
							<td colspan="4">œ</td>
							<td colspan="4">𐓛</td>
							<td colspan="4">‐</td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>ʼ</u></td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꝣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ø</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƿ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꞵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ŋ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɱ</td>
							<td colspan="4">⟨</td>
							<td colspan="4">⟩</td>
							<td colspan="4">−</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">∼</td>
							<td colspan="4">√</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꞷ</td>
							<td colspan="4">⇐</td>
							<td colspan="4">⇒</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ˇ</td>
							<td colspan="4">¨</td>
							<td colspan="4">´</td>
							<td colspan="4">˜</td>
							<td colspan="4">˚</td>
							<td colspan="4">—</td>
							<td colspan="4">±</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">‹</td>
							<td colspan="4">›</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʀ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Þ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ȝ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʊ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɩ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɔ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Θ</td>
							<td colspan="4">“</td>
							<td colspan="4">”</td>
							<td colspan="4">∋</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɑ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Æ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꝛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꜧ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꜭ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Œ</td>
							<td colspan="4">𐒳</td>
							<td colspan="4">…</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʼ</td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꝣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ø</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƿ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꞵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ŋ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɱ</td>
							<td colspan="4">≪</td>
							<td colspan="4">≫</td>
							<td colspan="4">∅</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="5">⎇</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
				<figcaption>
					Bilingual Sevensi Roman keyboard layout
				</figcaption>
			</figure>
			<p>
				An Apple keyboard bundle (created with <a
					href="https://scripts.sil.org/ukelele"
					>Ukelele</a>) <a href="
https://github.com/marrus-sh/sevensi-roman-keyboards">is available</a>
					for users of macOS devices, which makes the
					above layouts available in System Preferences
					once unzipped and installed into <code>~/<wbr
					/>Library/<wbr />Keyboard Layouts/</code>.
				It may be used as a basis for similar input methods
					on other platforms.
			</p>
		</section>
	</article>
</body>
</html>
