<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	lang="en"
	xml:lang="en"
>
<head>
	<title>
		August 2018:
		That One “Striaght Girlfriends” Article |
		KIBI Gô
	</title>
	<meta charset="UTF-8" />
	<base target="_top" />
	<style>
		a[href].PREVIEW { Display:Block ; Margin:1EM 0;
			Border-Style:Solid Dashed Dashed Solid ;
			Border-Width:Thin ; Border-Radius:.2EM ; Padding:1EM
			; Color:Inherit ; Box-Shadow:2PX 2PX currentColor ;
			Text-Decoration:None }
		a[href].PREVIEW>cite { Display:Block ; Margin:0 0 .25EM ;
			Font-Size:Large ; Font-Style:Inherit ; Font-Weight:Bold
			; Text-Decoration:Underline }
		a[href].PREVIEW>p { Margin: .5EM 0 0 ; Font-Style:Italic }
		a[href].PREVIEW>time { Font-Weight:Bold }
		body{ Margin:Auto ; Padding:3EM ; Max-Width:43EM }
		body>article>header { Margin-Top:1.85EM ; Padding-Top:0 }
		h1{ Margin:0 ; Font-Size:X-Large ; Font-Weight:Bold }
		header{ Margin:0 0 1.23EM ; Border-Style:None None Solid ;
			Border-Width:0 0 Thin ; Padding:.369EM 0 ;
			Font-Size:Small ; Text-Align:Left }
		header>p{ Margin:.369EM 0 }
		header>time{ Display:Block ; Margin:.369EM 0 ;
			Text-Align:Right }
		html{ Font-Family:Serif }
		i.SO-CALLED{ Font-Style:Inherit }
		i.SO-CALLED::BEFORE{ Content: Open-Quote }
		i.SO-CALLED::AFTER{ Content: Close-Quote }
		p{ Margin:0 ; Text-Align:Justify }
		p+p{ Text-Indent:2EM }
		span.PARENTHETICAL{ Color:DarkRed ; Background:AliceBlue }
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<article>
		<header>
			<p>Talking about…</p>
			<h1>
				That One <i class="SO-CALLED">Straight
					Girlfriends</i> Article
			</h1>
			<time datetime="2018-08">August 2018</time>
		</header>
		<p>
			I've seen multiple people sharing this article by now,
				and so I feel pretty comfortable talking about it
				and giving my takes (warning, there's quite a few):
		</p>
		<a class="PREVIEW" href="
https://broadly.vice.com/en_us/article/wjk45z/straight-girlfriends-queer-women
">
			<cite>
				How Our Cultural Obsession With Platonic
					'Girlfriends' Sidelines Queer Women
			</cite>
			by Sadie Graham | <time
				datetime="2018-08-06T14:12:00-0400">Aug 6 2018,
				2:12pm</time>
			<p>
				We're familiar with the trope of straight women
					whose intimacy transcends bestfriendship.
				But we don't hear about what happens when the Other
					Woman wants something more than
					pseudo&#x2010;romance.
			</p>
		</a>
		<p>
			And, before I begin, <strong>full disclosure:</strong>
			As a trans girl, <i class="SO-CALLED">straight women
				exploiting me for emotional support</i> is
				<em>not</em> a problem I often directly face, and
				so after reading the article the first thing I did
				was send it to a close (nonbinary but
				cis&#x2010;passing and frequently
				femme&#x2010;leaning) friend and ask for their
				thoughts.
			Their response seemed to boil down to <q>yea this is
				annoying but i think the crisis has been
				overblown</q>, which, if I want to be honest, I
				think is at least in&#x2010;part a function of them
				being a young twentysomething and not
				thirty&#x2010;plus, lol.
			(I have no idea how old the author is
				<abbr title="For The Record">FTR</abbr>.)
		</p>
		<p>
			But, while I <em>did</em> think the article made some
				very good points, I agreed that they were a bit
				obscured by the author's seeming bitterness at
				straight girls leading her on.
			So what I wanted to do was take some time and speak a
				little more (and a little more personally) on some
				things that I think the article <em>touched</em> on
				but perhaps were easy to miss, if you weren't like
				me and couldn't see the unstated threads of
				experience tying them together.
		</p>
		<p>
			I want to start with this quote:
		</p>
		<blockquote>
			<p>
				The unimaginability of sexual or romantic desire
					between women that gives intimacy its alibi
					works in tandem with that other thing: the way
					in which we all grow up knowing not just that
					women can be used, but how to use them.
				We internalize both.
				We learn&#x2014;we <em>all</em> learn&#x2014;that
					we can lean on women in ways that we can’t
					lean on men, and, at the same time, that that
					leaning, the bodily closeness of it, is
					elevated, more pure, more innocent for its
					lack of <em>want</em>.
				We’re all complicit, and we’re all suffering.
			</p>
		</blockquote>
		<p>
			If I was writing this article, I would have started with
				this paragraph.
			It's buried nearly three&#x2010;quarters of the way
				down, in the opening paragraph of the
				<em>fourth</em> section out of
				just&#x2010;as&#x2010;many, but it's clearly the
				lede.
			As it is, if you skimmed your way through without
				paying that close of attention, you might have
				missed that the fact that this piece is largely
				<em>not</em> just a complaint about straight women
				using words incorrectly, but about their
				complacency in a patriarchial system that exploits
				women as labourers while restricting their ability
				to build intimate relationships with anything other
				than a man.
		</p>
		<p>
			This is an incredibly important and valid critique, but
				the article falters by leaving the suggestion open
				that simply adding <q>want</q> back into the
				equation might solve all of our problems.
			Which, I can wholeheartedly say from my time in
				Mastodon's polytransbian circles, is definitely
				<em>not</em> true.
			The exploitation of women as caregivers by other women
				isn't <i class="SO-CALLED">solved</i> by letting
				them have romantic relationships with each other
				any more than the exploitation of women as
				caregivers by men is
				<i class="SO-CALLED">solved</i> by <em>their</em>
				romantic relationships.
			The restriction on romance is about who gets to
				<em>hold</em> the power (men), not about what the
				power is <em>doing</em> (exploitation).
		</p>
		<p>
			And this is probably the article's biggest flaw:
			It acknowledges that women use each other, it hints at
				<em>why</em>&#x2014;<q>Maybe it’s not about
				straightness.
			Maybe it’s just about men</q>&#x2014;but it misses the
				solution&#x2014;that yes, we turn to each other
				because the alternatives are turning to men and
				turning to TERFs, but that even so, we need to
				think critically about where we source our labour,
				how much we wind up taking from each other, and
				what the terms of the that taking is.
			Not just for men, or women, or straight people, but
				<em>everyone</em>.
		</p>
		<p>
			It's not mutual interdependency unless you recognize
				the vulnerability in <em>other people</em>, not
				just yourself, and for all this talk of Other
				Women, other <em>lesbians</em> (ie, those who are
				not the author or someone the author is dating) are
				conspicuously absent&#x2014;or reduced solely to
				their role as relationship&#x2010;partners.
		</p>
		<p>
			And yes, this is me coming off of a (at <em>least</em>
				<i class="SO-CALLED">a</i>!) months&#x2010;long
				relationship which was <em>exactly</em> about being
				leaned on and used without much in the way of
				acknowledgment of my needs or wants.
			Being <i class="SO-CALLED">actual</i> girlfriends with
				someone and using that term in the
				<i class="SO-CALLED">real</i> way doesn't free you
				of that, unfortunately.
			In fact, sometimes on Masto it feels like we're
				<em>all</em> doing the
				<i class="SO-CALLED">straight girlfriends</i>
				thing&#x2014;but because we're queer then that
				means we <em>must</em> actually be dating by it,
				even though we don't do romance well and suck at
				intimacy and anyone in an <em>actual</em>
				relationship would probably just look at us
				and shake their heads and go <q>oh, honey…</q>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span class="PARENTHETICAL">(<abbr
				title="Author's Note">AN</abbr>: There are a rare
				few actually stable and healthy lesbian
				relationships taking place on Mastodon and if
				you're a part of that crowd, hopefully you all know
				that I'm not talking about you. &#x2015; Gô)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			The author has something to say about this, too,
				although she phrases it as a condemnation of
				straight women…
		</p>
		<blockquote>
			<p>
				…getting from a woman what their man doesn’t
					provide them—without ever having to question
					whether they owe that other woman a
					conversation about what they each want and
					need to get out of it, thereby undercutting
					the easy assumptions proffered by
					heteronormativity.
			</p>
		</blockquote>
		<p>
			We are <em>all</em> getting from women what men don't
				provide us&#x2014;and getting from enbies; I mean,
				of <em>course</em> we are&#x2014;and being a
				lesbian or adding sex into the relationship doesn't
				somehow fundamentally change that dynamic
				<em>or</em> its easy assumptions.
			We <em>all</em> need to be having these conversations,
				not just straight women&#x2014;and maybe the author
				thinks that <i class="SO-CALLED">well, if you're in
				a romantic relationship, that's just a given,</i>
				or (and, amazingly in my opinion, she seems to
				believe this too) that if being in a romantic
				relationship is <em>even an option</em>, that means
				that people will somehow be mature and responsible
				about expressing their needs and wants to each
				other <em>by default</em>&#x2014;but
				Incredibly Not So in my experience.
			(Although, good on her if she hasn't had the awful life
				experiences which lead to the shattering of
				<em>those</em> illusions.)
		</p>
		<p>
			The consequence of these omissions&#x2014;and, to be
				clear, that's all they are, things which were not
				said, which is why I'm taking the time to say them
				now&#x2014;is that it becomes muddled trying to
				figure out what the critique of straight women
				actually is trying to <em>say</em>.
			Is it just that straight women are bad at communicating
				their needs and wants and expectations?
			They might be, but lesbians aren't exempt from that
				either.
			Is it that, due to patriarchy and heteronormativity,
				this lack of clarity is much harder on lesbians,
				who are already fighting an uphill battle when it
				comes to expressing desire, than it is to straight
				women, whose position is much more secure?
			This is also certainly true.
		</p>
		<p>
			But there's another big result of all this, with much
				graver concequences, and the author touches on it
				here, hidden as the opener to an anecdote about
				her coworkers:
		</p>
		<blockquote>
			<p>
				This stays with me after I read the article.
				It runs laps in my mind.
				The idea of calling someone your “work wife;" of
					that being the office in-joke, a professional
					and personal shorthand for productive
					closeness.
				A public performance of intimacy.
				I’m a visibly queer woman.
				If I started to call a coworker my “work wife,”
					at best, I’d be fielding some questions.
				At worst, I’d be opening myself up for
					harassment&#x2014;or maybe even facing an
					accusation of harassment myself.
			</p>
		</blockquote>
		<p>
			Although the article mostly frames its argument as
				being about how straight women refer to
				<em>their</em> <i class="SO-CALLED">Beyond BFF</i>
				partners, the major crime of
				<i class="SO-CALLED">girlfriend</i> terminology
				isn't just that it's ambiguous&#x2014;it's that it
				leaves us (lesbians) with nothing to call
				<em>ours</em>.
		</p>
		<p>
			As a lesbian trans woman, I have a number of exes who
				I am close to in ways that only someone who has
				spent the long hours over weeks and months offering
				the support of a partner can be.
			At the same time, our relationships are very clearly and
				extremely explicitly <em>not</em> romantic ones
				anymore.
			Where is the word for that?
			What is the word for the person who guided you through
				the lowest points of your worst depression, who
				knows you in ways that you honestly don't know
				yourself, because you can't remember, who was your
				partner and your lover and who has come through on
				the other side as
				<i class="SO-CALLED">just friends</i>?
			(There is no straighter concept than that of
				<i class="SO-CALLED">just friends</i>, and I take
				it back&#x2014;the article's greatest flaw is the
				fact that it even <em>begins</em> to frame things
				in that light.)
			I obviously can't call an ex my girlfriend.
			I obviously can't call an ex my wife.
			It's questionable whether I can even call an ex my
				partner.
		</p>
		<p>
			When straight women use that sort of
				terminology&#x2014;when they frame close,
				supportive, <em>intimate</em> platonic
				relationships as though they were romantic
				ones&#x2014;except not, obviously, because they're
				straight, of course&#x2014;it's not just that the
				poor lesbians can't tell if it's a flirt or a game.
			It's that we are actively being denied those same sorts
				of <em>platonic</em> relationships ourselves,
				because we <em>can't</em> refer to them with that
				language, we don't <em>have</em> a language for
				them; lesbians can be either
				<i class="SO-CALLED">pals</i> or
				<i class="SO-CALLED">lovers</i> but there is no
				conception of anything between, or outside, of that
				incredibly straight, incredibly boring and limiting
				and exploitative and awful, dichotomy.
			(Which is not to say that we don't make those
				relationships anyway.
			There's a whole movement of radical platonic intimacy
				and kinship within lesbian and queer circles.
			None of it is legible in the slightest to our straight
				friends, or the mainstream.)
		</p>
		<p>
			<em>This</em> is the rhetorical structure surrounding
				Other Women&#x2014;it is not <em>just</em> that
				their desire is negated and erased by virtue of it
				not involving a man, but also that all of the
				myriad forms of solidarity and kinship and
				compassion that a queer woman might partake in get
				inevitably reduced to, as <cite>Broadly</cite>
				puts it in the article's subheading, <q>want[ing]
				something more than pseudo-romance</q>.
			Our girlfriends have to be <i class="SO-CALLED">real</i>
				girlfriends.
			Our wives have to be <i class="SO-CALLED">real</i>
				wives.
			And meanwhile straight women continue to network and
				build these close partnerships and power structures
				that we will never ever be allowed to take part of.
		</p>
		<p>
			And fuck that, honestly!
			The author <em>has</em> a girlfriend; she talks about
				her in the piece; she gives <em>no</em> impression
				that she is actually looking for someone new to
				start fucking or going on dates with.
			So why is that the frame we are reading this in?
			Why is the erasure of queer lives and friendships and
				solidarity being packaged as
				<i class="SO-CALLED">what happens when lesbians
				want Something More?</i>
		</p>
		<p>
			We all know why, and it's because this is what straight
				women are <em>actually</em> afraid of; this is
				<em>why</em> they don't let lesbians into their
				exclusive clubs of girlishness in the first place.
			That fear of not being able to neatly categorize who is
				your friend and who is your lover; that imagined
				threat of predation, cast onto lesbian women to
				distract from the very real predation being carried
				out by men; that feeling of power that comes from
				policing the sexualities of those you call friends,
				of withholding things from them because they swing
				<em>that</em> way, and yet having no problem taking
				when the tables are turned, and you're the one who
				needs their support and their labour.
			The article is real and heartfelt, but it's set up like
				a strawman, a validation; <q>See?</q> the straight
				woman says to her friends, <q>if you let lesbians
				get close, they'll inevitably want more,</q> when
				no, we just want you to talk it out, we just want
				you to examine your damn assumptions and stop
				treating us in this way.
		</p>
		<p>
			Am I reading too much into the 28 words which appear at
				the top of the page?
		</p>
		<p>
			Anyway, this is all relevant because it all ties into
				the key questions underpinning the piece:
			What am I supposed to call my lover, what am I supposed
				to call my friend, what am I supposed to call that
				<em>queer</em> homosociality, those networks of
				love and care and support that <em>don't</em>
				involve a man, be they sexual or romantic or just
				the close bond of a kindred spirit&#x2014;when any
				word I might choose can always be willfully
				misinterpreted into whatever concept is most
				advantageous for mainstream heteronormativity?
			Straight women use ambiguous terms because they control
				the means by which those terms get turned into
				knowledge&#x2014;and have a tendency, knowingly or
				unknowingly, to turn them to queer women's
				disadvantage every time.
			And this is about gatekeeping, this is about who gets
				access to that highly privileged spot of&#x2014;and
				this is unstated in the piece, but let me just
				state that in <em>my</em> experience, this is
				a problem that shows its worst face with respect to
				<em>white</em> femininity, that femininity of
				control, and power, granted by and wielded to
				protect that ever&#x2010;present establishment of
				white man.
		</p>
		<p>
			I think all of this is in the piece, but I think it's
				buried, and whether that is because its editor
				purposely obscured it or simply failed to work with
				the author to draw it out is anyone's guess.
			But that's why I wanted to take the time to write it out
				now.
			Because I think these <em>are</em> valid critiques, I
				think they <em>are</em> important, and it doesn't
				sit well with me leaving them in a place where they
				might just get written off as
				<i class="SO-CALLED">more lesbian angst</i>.
		</p>
		<p>
			Let me know your thoughts!
		</p>
		<p>
			As always, I'm available
				<a href="https://glitch.social/@kibi">@kibi<wbr
				/>@glitch.social</a> if you want to talk things
				out &#x2764;.
		</p>
	</article>
</body>
</html>
