<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	lang="en"
	xml:lang="en"
>
<head>
	<title>July 2018: Clacks Overhead | KIBI Gô</title>
	<meta charset="UTF-8" />
	<base target="_top" />
	<style>
		body{ Margin:Auto ; Padding:3EM ; Max-Width:43EM }
		body>header { Margin-Top:1.85EM ; Padding-Top:0 }
		code{ Border:Thin Grey Solid ; Border-Radius:.1EM ;
			Padding:.1EM .2EM ; Color:Black ;
			Background:RGBA(245,245,245,.8) ; Line-Height:1 }
		h1{ Margin:0 ; Font-Size:X-Large ; Font-Weight:Bold }
		header{ Margin:0 0 1.23EM ; Border-Style:None None Solid ;
			Border-Width:0 0 Thin ; Padding:.369EM 0 ;
			Font-Size:Small ; Text-Align:Left }
		header>p{ Margin:.369EM 0 }
		header>time{ Display:Block ; Margin:.369EM 0 ;
			Text-Align:Right }
		html{ Font-Family:Serif }
		p{ Margin:0 ; Text-Align:Justify }
		p+p{ Text-Indent:2EM }
		strong.CW{ Display:Block ; Margin:1EM ; Border:Medium
			DarkRed Solid ; Padding:1EM ; Color:Black ;
			Background-Color:MistyRose ; Font-Size:Larger ;
			Font-Style:Italic ; Font-Weight:Inherit }
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<article>
		<header>
			<p>Remembering…</p>
			<h1>Clacks Overhead</h1>
			<time datetime="2018-07">July 2018</time>
		</header>
		<strong class="CW">
			<strong><abbr title="Content Warning">CW</abbr>:</strong>
			Mentions of death; suicide.
		</strong>
		<p>
			Something which very recently came back into my mind,
				and only because a recent update on my home
				Mastodon instance of <a
				href="https://glitch.social/">glitch.social</a>
				interfered with its normal operation for a single
				page of the site, is the <code>X-<wbr />Clacks-<wbr
				/>Overhead</code> HTTP header.
			For those not familiar, <code>X-<wbr />Clacks-<wbr
				/>Overhead</code> is a (non&#x2010;standard) means
				of commemorating the departed through a tiny piece
				of extra information sent alongside internet
				responses from servers.
			The name and design of this header comes from Terry
				Pratchett's Discworld series, and you can read more
				about it <a href="http://gnuterrypratchett.com/"
				>here</a>.
		</p>
		<p>
			<code>X-<wbr />Clacks-<wbr />Overhead</code> has special
				significance to my community on the fediverse, as
				instance admins have used it to commemorate Natalie
				Nguyen (aka <a
				href="https://glitch.social/@tipsytentacle"
				>@tipsytentacle</a>), one of our own who lost her
				life to suicide last November.
			It's a very sad story with a lot of accompanying hurt
				and trauma that I'm not going to go into here, but
				suffice to say that the <code>X-<wbr />Clacks-<wbr
				/>Overhead</code> has been our way of preserving
				her memory, as we knew her and as she wished to be
				known.
		</p>
		<p>
			The <code>X-<wbr />Clacks-<wbr />Overhead</code>, as an
				HTTP header, is designed to be completely
				unobtrusive, invisible to people who don't know
				where or how to look for it there.
			For example, you might not be aware that websites such
				as <a href="https://mozilla.org/">mozilla.org</a>
				and <a href="https://archiveofourown.com/"
				>archiveofourown.com</a> serve <code>X-<wbr
				/>Clacks-<wbr />Overhead</code> headers with every
				webpage they serve.
			They do, and you can see them with browser extensions
				like <a href="
https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/gnu_terry_pratchett/"
				title="GNU_Terry_Pratchett | Add-ons for Firefox"
				>this one</a> for Firefox and <a href="
https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/clacks-overhead-gnu-terry/lnndfmobdoobjfcalkmfojmanbeoegab
				" title="Clacks Overhead - GNU Terry Pratchett |
				Chrome Web Store"
				>this one</a> for Chrome.
		</p>
		<p>
			However, sometimes we might want to commemorate our
				loved ones in a more visible way.
			On the fediverse in particular, we might want to
				make our Clacks overheads visible through the
				same JSON(-LD) tools used to process our
				ordinary content.
			Indeed, we might want to let users (and not just
				admins) generate overheads of their own.
		</p>
		<p>
			And so, because I couldn't find any reference or
				existing best&#x2010;practices for doing this
				online (it is admittedly difficult to
				web&#x2010;search), I'm writing this document as a
				casual specification for a single new datatype and
				a single new property for describing Clacks
				overheads in RDF&#x2014;and, by extension,
				protocols like ActivityPub.
		</p>
		<p>
			The base URI for these definitions is <code>tag:<wbr
				/>gnuterrypratchett.com,2015-<wbr />03-<wbr
				/>12:</code>.
			(Note that I do not control this domain.
			But using a personal domain for something as meaningful
				as this didn't seem prudent, and <a
				href="http://gnuterrypratchett.com/"
				>gnuterrypratchett.com</a> is arguably the
				canonical website on the subject.)
			In this document, I will represent this URI using the
				prefix <code>clacks:</code>.
		</p>
		<p>
			The datatype being introduced is <code>clacks:<wbr
				/>gnu</code>, which is a restriction on
				<code>xsd:<wbr />string</code> via the following
				<code>pattern</code> and with the
				<code>whiteSpace</code> facet set to
				<code>collapse</code>:
		</p>
		<pre>GNU\s.+</pre>
		<p>
			That is, <code>clacks:<wbr />gnu</code> must be a string
				which begins with the characters "GNU", followed by
				a space, followed by one or more characters, with
				sequences of whitespace collapsed to a single space
				character prior to processing.
		</p>
		<p>
			The property being introduced is <code>clacks:<wbr
				/>overhead</code>, which must have exclusively (but
				potentially multiple) <code>clacks:<wbr
				/>gnu</code> values.
		</p>
		<p>
			A sample JSON-LD object with a <code>clacks:<wbr
				/>overhead</code> is:
		</p>
		<pre>{
  "@context": {
    "clacks": "tag:gnuterrypratchett.com,2015-03-12:",
    "overhead": {
      "@id": "clacks:overhead",
      "@type": "clacks:gnu"
    }
  },
  "overhead": "GNU John Dearheart"
}</pre>
		<p>
			Just like with <code>X-<wbr />Clacks-<wbr
				/>Overhead</code>, <code>clacks:<wbr
				/>overhead</code> will likely be ignored silently
				by any unrecognizing servers or clients.
			However, implementations which recognize this property
				should preserve it as they federate our objects
				evermore out into the cybre.
		</p>
	</article>
</body>
</html>
