<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	lang="en"
	xml:lang="en"
>
<head>
	<title>
		September 2018: Neutral Jing | KIBI Gô
	</title>
	<meta charset="UTF-8" />
	<base target="_top" />
	<style>
		body{ Margin:Auto ; Padding:3EM ; Max-Width:43EM }
		body>article>header{ Margin-Top:1.85EM ; Padding-Top:0 }
		div[role=note]{ Margin:1EM 0 ; Border:Thin Solid ;
			Padding:1EM ; Color:Black ; Background:Gainsboro ;
			Font-Style:Italic }
		div[role=note] cite,div[role=note] i{ Font-Style:Normal }
		div[role=note] i.SO-CALLED{ Font-Style:Inherit }
		h1{ Margin:0 ; Font-Size:X-Large ; Font-Weight:Bold }
		header{ Margin:0 0 1.23EM ; Border-Style:None None Solid ;
			Border-Width:0 0 Thin ; Padding:.369EM 0 ;
			Font-Size:Small ; Text-Align:Left }
		header>p{ Margin:.369EM 0 }
		header>p::before{ Content:None }
		header>time{ Display:Block ; Margin:.369EM 0 ;
			Text-Align:Right }
		html{ Font-Family:Serif }
		i.SO-CALLED{ Font-Style:Inherit }
		i.SO-CALLED::before{ Content:Open-Quote }
		i.SO-CALLED::after{ Content:Close-Quote }
		p{ Margin:0 ; Text-Align:Justify }
		p+p{ Text-Indent:2EM }
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<article>
		<header>
			<p>Sevensi Philosophy In A Nutshell</p>
			<h1>Neutral Jing</h1>
			<time datetime="2018-09">September 2018</time>
		</header>
		<div role="note">
			<p>
				<strong>Note:</strong>
				The English word <i>jing</i> comes from the
					existing usage of the word in the animated
					series <cite>Avatar: The Last Airbender</cite>
					to denote a similar (although not completely
					equivalent) concept; it is derived from the
					Chinese <a
					href="https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/勁"><i
					lang="zh">勁</i></a>, where it denotes <i
					class="SO-CALLED">power</i> or <i
					class="SO-CALLED">energy</i>.
			</p>
			<p>
				As a philosophical concept, Sevensi jing derive
					from the Sevensi cosmogony, in which the
					earth, representing negative jing, separated
					from the heavens, representing positive jing.
				Life came into existence in the realm between these
					two forces&#x2014;the realm of neutral jing.
				These concepts are again similar, but not identical
					to, the concept of yin and yang.
			</p>
		</div>
		<p>
			It is commonly held that energy manifests itself in two
				forms, or <dfn>jing</dfn>.
		</p>
		<p>
			Positive jing is the energy of action, of doing, of
				affecting change, and of making decisions.
			It tends towards chaös, breaking and destructing, and
				exerts its will on the future, bending and shaping
				what is to come.
			Of the three fluids, fire best represents this jing.
		</p>
		<p>
			Negative jing is the energy of reaction, of responding,
				being affected, and of thinking, contemplation.
			It tends towards order, attempting to bring structure to
				the world, and exerts its will on the past,
				bringing coherence to that which has occurred.
			Of the three fluids, water best represents this jing.
		</p>
		<p>
			However, we might find ourselves wondering:
			In what jing does the soul, the source of life, reside?
			For the soul is certainly a kind of energy, and if there
				are but two forms which energy can hold, certainly
				it must be the case that the soul manifests itself
				in one or the other.
		</p>
		<p>
			Is it in positive jing?
			Look to the waterfall, careening off a cliff.
			Certainly, this waterfall exhibits positive jing, but
				none would say that the waterfall is alive.
		</p>
		<p>
			Is it in negative jing?
			Look to the branch, snapping underfoot.
			Certainly, this branch exhibits negative jing, but none
				would say that the branch is alive.
		</p>
		<p>
			Is it in both jing together?
			Look to the water&#x2010;mill, powering the
				trip&#x2010;hammer.
			Certainly, this mill exhibits both positive and negative
				jing, but none would say that the mill is alive.
		</p>
		<p>
			Indeed:
			A person may rid themself of all action, and thus all
				positive jing, and a person may rid themself of all
				thought, and thus all negative jing, and yet none
				would argue that this person is no longer alive.
			So clearly, neither positive nor negative jing hold the
				key to the soul.
		</p>
		<p>
			There is, in fact, a third jing: neutral jing, the jing
				of life.
		</p>
		<p>
			Neutral jing is the energy of inaction, of existence, of
				survival, and of knowledge.
			Where positive jing tends towards chaos and negative
				jing tends towards order, neutral jing tends
				towards persistence; where positive jing looks to
				the future and negative jing looks to the past,
				neutral jing exists solely in the present,
				simultaneously ephemeral and everlasting.
			Of the three fluids, air best represents this jing.
		</p>
		<p>
			Some will say:
			But what of the rock, sitting on the ground?
			The rock does not take action, the rock does not
				respond, does this mean that the rock is alive?
			Clearly not, but neither does the rock exhibit neutral
				jing:
			Neutral jing is not the same as no jing at all.
		</p>
	</article>
</body>
</html>
