<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	lang="en"
	xml:lang="en"
>
<head>
	<title>
		September 2018: Modern? Sevensi Serialization | KIBI Gô
	</title>
	<meta charset="UTF-8" />
	<base target="_top" />
	<style>
		body{ Margin:Auto ; Padding:3EM ; Max-Width:43EM }
		body>article>header{ Margin-Top:1.85EM ; Padding-Top:0 }
		dd{ Margin:0 0 1EM 2EM }
		dl{ Margin:1EM 0 }
		dt{ Margin:0 ; Font-Weight:Bold ; Text-Decoration:Underline }
		dt::AFTER{ Content:":" }
		figcaption{ Margin:0 2EM ; Font-Style:Italic ;
			Text-Align:Center }
		figcaption>*:first-child{ Margin-Top:.5EM }
		figure{ Margin:1EM -3EM }
		figure.KEYBOARD{ Border:Thin Solid ; Padding:1EM ;
			Color:Black ; Background:WhiteSmoke ; Text-Align:Center
			; Overflow:Scroll }
		figure.KEYBOARD>figcaption{ Margin-Top:1EM }
		figure.KEYBOARD input:Nth-Of-Type(1):Checked~*
			tbody:Nth-Of-Type(2),figure.KEYBOARD
			input:Nth-Of-Type(2):Checked~*
			tbody:Nth-Of-Type(3),figure.KEYBOARD
			input:Nth-Of-Type(3):Checked~*
			tbody:Nth-Of-Type(4),figure.KEYBOARD
			input:Nth-Of-Type(4):Checked~*
			tbody:Nth-Of-Type(5){ Display:Table-Row-Group }
		figure.KEYBOARD table{ Table-Layout:Fixed ; Margin:1EM Auto 0
			; Border:Thin Silver Solid ; Border-Spacing:.25EM ;
			Width:30EM ; Color:Black ; Background:Gainsboro }
		figure.KEYBOARD tbody{ Font-Size:Inherit }
		figure.KEYBOARD tbody:First-Of-Type td{ Display:None }
		figure.KEYBOARD tbody:Nth-Of-Type(n+2){ Display:None }
		figure.KEYBOARD td{ Border:Thin DarkGrey Solid ; Padding:0
			.25EM ; Height:1EM ; Color:Black ; Background:White ;
			Font-Size:Inherit ; Line-Height:1.5EM }
		figure.KEYBOARD td.ON{ Color:White ; Background:Black }
		figure.KEYBOARD tr{ Font-Size:Inherit }
		figure.KEYBOARD u{ Text-Decoration:Underline Dotted }
		h1{ Margin:0 ; Font-Size:X-Large ; Font-Weight:Bold }
		h2{ Margin:0 0 .5EM ; Font-Size:Large ; Font-Weight:Bold }
		h2::before{ Display:Block ; Margin:2EM 0 ;
			Font-Size:Medium ; Font-Weight:Normal ; Color:DimGrey ;
			Text-Align:Center ; Content:"☙ ⁂ ❧" }
		header{ Margin:0 0 1.23EM ; Border-Style:None None Solid ;
			Border-Width:0 0 Thin ; Padding:.369EM 0 ;
			Font-Size:Small ; Text-Align:Left }
		header>p{ Margin:.369EM 0 }
		header>p::before{ Content:None }
		header>time{ Display:Block ; Margin:.369EM 0 ;
			Text-Align:Right }
		html{
			Font-Family:"Gentium Plus","Junicode","Noto Serif",Serif
			}
		i.SO-CALLED{ Font-Style:Inherit }
		i.SO-CALLED::before{ Content:Open-Quote }
		i.SO-CALLED::after{ Content:Close-Quote }
		p{ Margin:0 ; Text-Align:Justify }
		p+p{ Text-Indent:2EM }
		ol,ul{ Margin:1EM 0 ; Padding:0 0 0 2EM }
		ol>li,ul>li{ Margin:1EM 0 }
		table{ Caption-Side:Bottom ; Margin:1EM 0 ;
			Border-Spacing:.2EM ; Width: 100% ; Color:Black ;
			Background:White }
		td,th{ Padding:.1EM .2EM }
		td{ Border:Thin Gainsboro Solid }
		td:empty{
			Background:Repeating-Linear-Gradient(-45DEG,Gainsboro
			0,Gainsboro 1PT,White 1.25PT,White 2.25PT,Gainsboro
			2.5PT),Gainsboro }
		th{ Color:Black ; Background:WhiteSmoke }
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<article>
		<header>
			<p>A Rough Overview:</p>
			<h1>Modern? Sevensi Serialization</h1>
			<time datetime="2018-09">September 2018</time>
		</header>
		<p>
			Over the past week I've been pondering the probable
				path of evolution for Sevensi from the Classical
				dialect to a more Modern form.
			(Sevensi is a fictional language and culture developed
				under stewardship of <a href="https://langdev.xyz/"
				>the LANGDEV Project</a> and <a
				href="https://www.kibi.family/">the KIBI Jexr</a>.)
			One of my goals with all of the RDF technology work that
				I've been doing recently is to build a better set
				of tools for organizing/chronicling/presenting
				LANGDEV work and the evolution and development of
				languages over time, which is a huge and
				complicated task not exactly well&#x2010;served by
				current technologies.
			In the coming months, I hope to formalize vocabularies
				for dealing with native Sevensi grammatical
				concepts and structures, and start work
				on&#x2014;at the very
				least&#x2014;command&#x2010;line tools for building
				and processing RDF graphs of words, dialects, and
				lexicons over time.
			This will supercede the current plain&#x2010;text LREC
				Index Records and HTML files currently being used
				to build the LANGDEV dictionaries, and hopefully
				create a more nuanced and detailed perspective on
				the language as a whole.
		</p>
		<p>
			(Naturally, any tools I create in this effort will be
				open&#x2010;source, likely made available through
				<a href="https://github.com/langdev-project">the
				LANGDEV Project GitHub page</a>.)
		</p>
		<p>
			The prerequisites for this, however, are quite large,
				depending on me finishing my XSD and RDF libraries
				and then building extensive tooling on top.
			So I wanted to make a (quick, not comprehensive) post
				about the shape of Modern Sevensi as it is
				currently taking form, as a way of previewing some
				of the work that is to come.
			In particular, I wanted to talk a bit about its primary
				serializations: for now, into the spoken word
				(phonology) and into text (orthography).
			Although a native orthography for Modern Sevensi is
				planned, it will likely be technologically
				cumbersome to implement, so for now I will focus
				on the Latin (romanized) representation.
		</p>
		<section id="classical">
			<h2>An Overview of Classical Sevensi Serializations</h2>
			<p>
				Before getting into Modern Sevensi serialization
					forms, it will be benificial to have an
					overview of the Classical forms which preceded
					them.
				Classical Sevensi has six main consonant series;
					these are: G&#x2010;series, Ƣ&#x2010;series,
					D&#x2010;series, Ʒ&#x2010;series,
					B&#x2010;series, and V&#x2010;series.
				Each series has base, devoiced, and alternate
					classes, and one series has a consonant which
					is both alternate and devoiced.
				The following table summarizes each series:
			</p>
			<table>
				<thead>
					<tr>
						<th>Base</th>
						<th>Devoiced</th>
						<th>Alternate</th>
						<th>Alternate+Devoiced</th>
					</tr>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>G /g/ <code>G</code></td>
						<td>K /k/ <code>K</code></td>
						<td>Q /ŋ/ <code>Q</code></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Ƣ /ɰ/ <code>9</code></td>
						<td>X /x/ <code>X</code></td>
						<td>Y /j/ <code>Y</code></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>D /d/ <code>D</code></td>
						<td>T /t/ <code>T</code></td>
						<td>N /n/ <code>N</code></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Ʒ /ʑ/ <code>Z</code></td>
						<td>Ʃ /ɕ/ <code>S</code></td>
						<td>J /d͡ʑ/ <code>J</code></td>
						<td>Ç /t͡ɕ/ <code>C</code></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>B /b/ <code>B</code></td>
						<td>P /p/ <code>P</code></td>
						<td>M /m/ <code>M</code></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>V /v/ <code>V</code></td>
						<td>F /f/ <code>F</code></td>
						<td>W /w/ <code>W</code></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>
				There are also an additional four consonants which
					do not fit into any series, given below:
			</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>Ɂ /ʔ/ <code>7</code></td>
						<td>H /h/ <code>H</code></td>
						<td>L /l/ <code>L</code> and R /ɾ/ <code>R</code></td>
						<td>ƛ /tˡl̩/ <code>TL</code></td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>
				Note that L and R are not considered phonemically
					distinct.
			</p>
			<p>
				Finally, Classical Sevensi has three vowel classes:
					positive (A&#x2010;series), neutral, and
					negative (E&#x2010;series), which may have
					unrounded, rounded, iotized (which, in this
					sense, indicates a diphthong with /ɪ/), and
					rounded&#x2010;iotized forms.
				These are summarized in the table below:
			</p>
			<table>
				<thead>
					<tr>
						<th>Unrounded</th>
						<th>Rounded</th>
						<th>Iotized</th>
						<th>Rounded+Iotized</th>
					</tr>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>A /ɑ/ <code>A</code></td>
						<td>Å /ɒ/ <code>AO</code></td>
						<td>AI /ʌɪ/ <code>AI</code></td>
						<td>ÅI /ɔɪ/ <code>AOI</code></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Æ /ə/ <code>AE</code></td>
						<td>U /u/ <code>U</code></td>
						<td>I /i/ <code>I</code></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>E /e/ <code>E</code></td>
						<td>O /o/ <code>O</code></td>
						<td>EI /eɪ/ <code>EI</code></td>
						<td>OI /ɵɪ/ <code>OI</code></td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>
				Classical Sevensi words are broken into syllables,
					which are further broken into moræ.
				With the exception of syllabic L (which is a
					special case), these moræ come in the
					following varieties:
			</p>
			<table>
				<thead>
					<tr>
						<th>Kind of Mora</th>
						<th>Form</th>
						<th>Description</th>
					</tr>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>Initial</td>
						<td>C(W)V(i)</td>
						<td>
							A consonant (C), followed by an
								optional semivowel (W)
								followed by a vowel (V(i)).
							The possible semivowels are L, W,
								and Y.
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Extension (optional)</td>
						<td>ː(N)</td>
						<td>
							Lengthens the preceding vowel, and
								optionally adds a nasal.
							The possible nasals are M, N, and
								Q.
							Note that vowel lengthening is not
								phonemic in Classical Sevensi.
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Final (optional)</td>
						<td>T</td>
						<td>
							Adds a terminal consonant to form a
								closed (as opposed to open)
								syllable.
							The possible terminal consonants are
								D, G, K, L, Ƣ, Ʃ, T, X, and Ʒ.
							When the following syllable is a
								syllabic L, this syllable
								<em>must</em> have a terminal
								of T.
							This combination is written using
								the letter ƛ.
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
		<section id="modern">
			<h2>Changes to Modern Sevensi</h2>
			<p>
				In the transition to Modern Sevensi, a number of
					changes have taken place:
			</p>
			<dl>
				<dt>Consonant merges and shifts</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						T merges with ʔ.
						D and R merge to Ʀ, which is realized as /d/ after consonants, and /ɾ/ otherwise.
						H shifts to Ƕ /ʍ/ but does not gain semivowel status.
						<i>ƕw</i> is still pronounced as /hw/, reduced in some dialects to /w/.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Vowel merges and shifts</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						Å and O merge to Ɔ /ɔ/ (although
							diphthongs remain phonologically
							distinct until later).
						A reduces to Æ in some circumstances.
						E is lowered to /ɛ/.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Nasal merges</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						M, N, and Q in extension moræ all merge
							to nasalize the previous vowel.
						In the romanization, this is written by
							placing a tilde over the vowel.
						In initial moræ, N merges with Q, and M
							merges with W.
					</p>
					<p>
						(Vowel nasalization has been a feature of
							the language from it's earliest
							proto&#x2010;forms, and I've never
							been 100% sure on how to handle it.
						The non&#x2010;initial nasal distinctions
							in Classical Sevensi are probably an
							anglicization on my part, and I may
							strike them out of the language
							entirely.)
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Syllabification of L</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						L becomes a fully&#x2010;fledged vowel,
							written Ꞁ to clarify its
							non&#x2010;consonantal status.
						ƛ ceases to be a special&#x2010;case,
							becoming the syllable <i>ɂꞁ</i>.
					</p>
					<p>
						Nasals and semivowels are valid in
							Ꞁ&#x2010;syllables; however, their
							pronunciation varies somewhat.
						<i>Cwꞁ</i> creates a <i class="SO-CALLED"
							>dark</i> L (/ɫ̩/); the Ꞁ in
							<i>Cꞁ̃</i> is typically pronounced
							/n̩/.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Elimination of diphthongs</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						<i>Cai</i> and <i>Cei</i> become
							<i>Cya</i> and <i>Cye</i>.
						<i>Cåi</i> and <i>Coi</i>
							become <i>Cɔwi</i> and <i>Cwi</i>.
						Finally, <i>CWVi</i> becomes
							<i>CWVɂi</i>.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Weakening of vowel harmony</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						Vowel harmony (strongly enforced in the
							Classical language) weakens
							generally, but nevertheless persists
							in verbal conjugation classes.
					</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Orthography changes</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>
						In accordance with the design principles
							(see below), the Latin orthography
							has shifted somewhat:
						The letters Ʌ, Ɛ, Ɩ, Ŋ, Ʊ, Ỽ, Kʼ, Ⱶ, Ꜭ
							replace A, E, I, Q, U, W, X, Æ, Ç.
					</p>
				</dd>
			</dl>
			<p>
				Attempting to fit these changes into the tables
					above demonstrates the evolution of the
					language:
			</p>
			<table>
				<thead>
					<tr>
						<th>Base</th>
						<th>Devoiced</th>
						<th>Alternate</th>
						<th>Alternate+Devoiced</th>
					</tr>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>G /g/ <code>G</code></td>
						<td>K /k/ <code>K</code></td>
						<td>Ŋ /ŋ/ <code>Q</code></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Ƣ /ɰ/ <code>9</code></td>
						<td>Kʼ /x/ <code>X</code></td>
						<td>Y /j/ <code>Y</code></td>
						<td>Ɂ /ʔ/ <code>7</code></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Ʀ /d/ or /ɾ/ <code>8</code></td>
						<td></td>
						<td></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Ʒ /ʑ/ <code>3</code></td>
						<td>Ʃ /ɕ/ <code>5</code></td>
						<td>J /d͡ʑ/ <code>J</code></td>
						<td>Ꜭ /t͡ɕ/ <code>4</code></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>B /b/ <code>B</code></td>
						<td>P /p/ <code>P</code></td>
						<td></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>V /v/ <code>V</code></td>
						<td>F /f/ <code>F</code></td>
						<td>Ỽ /w/ <code>6</code></td>
						<td>Ƕ /ʍ/ <code>2</code></td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>Ɩ /i/ <code>I</code></td>
						<td>Ɛ /ɛ/ <code>E</code></td>
						<td>Ⱶ /ə/ <code>_</code></td>
						<td>Ɔ /ɔ/ <code>O</code></td>
						<td>Ꞁ /l̩/ <code>1</code></td>
						<td>Ʌ /ɑ/ <code>A</code></td>
						<td>Ʊ /u/ <code>U</code></td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>
				Note that in the above charts, Kʼ is the capital
					form of the letter <i class="SO-CALLED">kra</i
					> (lowercase: <i>ĸ</i>), <em>not</em> a simple
					K followed by an apostrophe (although the
					encoding of these is the same).
			</p>
		</section>
		<section id="design">
			<h2>Design Principles of Modern Sevensi Romanization</h2>
			<p>
				Because native&#x2010;script encoding and support
					for Modern Sevensi is not likely to manifest
					for some time, it is important that the Latin
					Sevensi script be suitable for use not merely
					as a transcription tool, but as a native,
					everyday writing system for the language.
				Also important is giving Sevensi its own native
					<i class="SO-CALLED">feel</i> and distinctive
					appearance, such that Sevensi text can be
					easily identified at&#x2010;a&#x2010;glance
					from the characters used.
				(This goal is more political than practical.)
			</p>
			<p>
				These factors are considered to take priority over
					such things as input method or font and
					computer&#x2010;system support&#x2014;after
					all, new input methods can always be designed,
					but changing the orthography of a language is
					a difficult and incredibly
					time&#x2010;consuming process for all
					speakers, learners, and technologists.
				In order to create an intuitive and
					easily&#x2010;recognizable Latin orthography,
					rather than looking to outdated concepts such
					as ASCII or <i class="SO-CALLED">Basic
					Latin</i>, the following design guidelines
					were followed:
			</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<p>
						Every phoneme should have a single
							character which represents it.
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						Letters should all be base characters (no
							diacritics).
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						Letters used in English should only be
							used for Sevensi if they represent
							the same phonological category
							(consonant or vowel) and sound.
					</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</section>
		<section id="anglicization">
			<h2>Anglicization of Sevensi</h2>
			<p>
				The Sevensi romanization depicted above is designed
					for <em>native</em> transcription, not
					cross&#x2010;linguistic incorporation.
				When adopting Sevensi words into English text, a
					number of substitutions may be performed to
					make the resulting transcription more familiar
					to native English speakers:
			</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>G ⇒ G</td>
						<td>K ⇒ K</td>
						<td>Ŋ ⇒ NG</td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Ƣ ⇒ XR</td>
						<td>Kʼ ⇒ KH</td>
						<td>Y ⇒ Y</td>
						<td>Ɂ ⇒ ʼ</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Ʀ ⇒ D</td>
						<td></td>
						<td></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Ʒ ⇒ ZH</td>
						<td>Ʃ ⇒ SH</td>
						<td>J ⇒ J</td>
						<td>Ꜭ ⇒ CH</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>B ⇒ B</td>
						<td>P ⇒ P</td>
						<td></td>
						<td></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>V ⇒ V</td>
						<td>F ⇒ F</td>
						<td>Ỽ ⇒ W</td>
						<td>Ƕ ⇒ WH</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>Ɩ ⇒ I</td>
						<td>Ɛ ⇒ E</td>
						<td>Ⱶ ⇒ [∅]</td>
						<td>Ɔ ⇒ O</td>
						<td>Ꞁ ⇒ L</td>
						<td>Ʌ ⇒ A</td>
						<td>Ʊ ⇒ U</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>
				Different substitution tables may be used for
					different languages.
			</p>
		</section>
		<section id="input">
			<h2>Input Methods</h2>
			<p>
				Below are two prospective keyboard layouts for
					inputting the Latin Sevensi orthography.
				The first is designed around Sevensi phonology and
					should be useful for writing long passages of
					Sevensi text.
				The second is designed around a QWERTY layout,
					adding Sevensi characters as option/alt
					modifiers.
			</p>
			<figure class="KEYBOARD">
				<input id="key1.mod1" name="key1mod" type="radio"
					checked="" />
				<label for="key1.mod1">Normal</label>
				<input id="key1.mod2" name="key1mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key1.mod2">Shift</label>
				<input id="key1.mod3" name="key1mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key1.mod3">Option</label>
				<input id="key1.mod4" name="key1mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key1.mod4">Alt</label>
				<table>
					<tbody hidden="">
						<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						></tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">0</td>
							<td colspan="4">1</td>
							<td colspan="4">2</td>
							<td colspan="4">3</td>
							<td colspan="4">4</td>
							<td colspan="4">5</td>
							<td colspan="4">6</td>
							<td colspan="4">7</td>
							<td colspan="4">8</td>
							<td colspan="4">9</td>
							<td colspan="4">−</td>
							<td colspan="4">±</td>
							<td colspan="4">+</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">y</td> <!-- wye -->
							<td colspan="4">ƣ</td> <!-- gha -->
							<td colspan="4">g</td> <!-- gee -->
							<td colspan="4">ʒ</td> <!-- ezh -->
							<td colspan="4">j</td> <!-- jay -->
							<td colspan="4">v</td> <!-- vee -->
							<td colspan="4">ỽ</td> <!-- wynn -->
							<td colspan="4">b</td> <!-- bee -->
							<td colspan="4">ŋ</td> <!-- eng -->
							<td colspan="4">ʀ</td> <!-- yr -->
							<td colspan="4">(</td>
							<td colspan="4">)</td>
							<td colspan="4">/</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɂ</td> <!-- glottal stop -->
							<td colspan="4">ĸ</td> <!-- kra -->
							<td colspan="4">k</td> <!-- kay -->
							<td colspan="4">ʃ</td> <!-- esh -->
							<td colspan="4">ꜭ</td> <!-- cuatrillo -->
							<td colspan="4">f</td> <!-- ef -->
							<td colspan="4">ƕ</td> <!-- ƕair -->
							<td colspan="4">p</td> <!-- pee -->
							<td colspan="4"><u>˜</u></td> <!-- tilde -->
							<td colspan="4">‘</td>
							<td colspan="4">’</td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɩ</td> <!-- iota -->
							<td colspan="4">ɛ</td> <!-- epsilon -->
							<td colspan="4">ⱶ</td> <!-- heta -->
							<td colspan="4">ɔ</td> <!-- openoh -->
							<td colspan="4">ꞁ</td> <!-- turndel -->
							<td colspan="4">ʌ</td> <!-- turntvee -->
							<td colspan="4">ʊ</td> <!-- upsilon -->
							<td colspan="4">&#x2010;</td> <!-- hyphen -->
							<td colspan="4">.</td>
							<td colspan="4">,</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">∅</td>
							<td colspan="4">¬</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">@</td>
							<td colspan="4">¶</td>
							<td colspan="4">§</td>
							<td colspan="4">※</td>
							<td colspan="4">$</td>
							<td colspan="4">∞</td>
							<td colspan="4">°</td>
							<td colspan="4">÷</td>
							<td colspan="4">=</td>
							<td colspan="4">×</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇤</td>
							<td colspan="4">Y</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">G</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">J</td>
							<td colspan="4">V</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ỽ</td>
							<td colspan="4">B</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ŋ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʀ</td>
							<td colspan="4">[</td>
							<td colspan="4">]</td>
							<td colspan="4">\</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɂ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Kʼ</td>
							<td colspan="4">K</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʃ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꜭ</td>
							<td colspan="4">F</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƕ</td>
							<td colspan="4">P</td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>´</u></td>
							<td colspan="4">“</td>
							<td colspan="4">”</td>
							<td colspan="7">⌤</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɩ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ⱶ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɔ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꞁ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʌ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʊ</td>
							<td colspan="4">·</td>
							<td colspan="4">:</td>
							<td colspan="4">;</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td colspan="5">⎇</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">©</td>
							<td colspan="4">!</td>
							<td colspan="4">?</td>
							<td colspan="4">#</td>
							<td colspan="4">†</td>
							<td colspan="4">☜</td>
							<td colspan="4">*</td>
							<td colspan="4">☞</td>
							<td colspan="4">~</td>
							<td colspan="4">′</td>
							<td colspan="4">-</td>
							<td colspan="4">^</td>
							<td colspan="4">&amp;</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">q</td>
							<td colspan="4">ə</td>
							<td colspan="4">z</td>
							<td colspan="4">d</td>
							<td colspan="4">å</td>
							<td colspan="4">w</td>
							<td colspan="4">m</td>
							<td colspan="4">n</td>
							<td colspan="4">r</td>
							<td colspan="4">&lt;</td>
							<td colspan="4">&gt;</td>
							<td colspan="4">%</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">t</td>
							<td colspan="4">x</td>
							<td colspan="4">ħ</td>
							<td colspan="4">s</td>
							<td colspan="4">c</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">h</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꜵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">˜</td>
							<td colspan="4">‹</td>
							<td colspan="4">›</td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">i</td>
							<td colspan="4">e</td>
							<td colspan="4">æ</td>
							<td colspan="4">o</td>
							<td colspan="4">l</td>
							<td colspan="4">a</td>
							<td colspan="4">u</td>
							<td colspan="4">'</td>
							<td colspan="4">…</td>
							<td colspan="4">&#x2013;</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20">_</td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">🄯</td>
							<td colspan="4">¡</td>
							<td colspan="4">¿</td>
							<td colspan="4">№</td>
							<td colspan="4">‡</td>
							<td colspan="4">☙</td>
							<td colspan="4">⁂</td>
							<td colspan="4">❧</td>
							<td colspan="4">⁓</td>
							<td colspan="4">″</td>
							<td colspan="4">∕</td>
							<td colspan="4">≠</td>
							<td colspan="4">⋅</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇤</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Q</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ə</td>
							<td colspan="4">Z</td>
							<td colspan="4">D</td>
							<td colspan="4">Å</td>
							<td colspan="4">W</td>
							<td colspan="4">M</td>
							<td colspan="4">N</td>
							<td colspan="4">R</td>
							<td colspan="4">{</td>
							<td colspan="4">}</td>
							<td colspan="4">¥</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">T</td>
							<td colspan="4">X</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ħ</td>
							<td colspan="4">S</td>
							<td colspan="4">C</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">H</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꜵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">´</td>
							<td colspan="4">«</td>
							<td colspan="4">»</td>
							<td colspan="7">⌤</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">I</td>
							<td colspan="4">E</td>
							<td colspan="4">Æ</td>
							<td colspan="4">O</td>
							<td colspan="4">L</td>
							<td colspan="4">A</td>
							<td colspan="4">U</td>
							<td colspan="4">"</td>
							<td colspan="4">|</td>
							<td colspan="4">&#x2014;</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="5">⎇</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20">_</td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
				<figcaption>
					Prospective Modern Sevensi Keyboard Layout
				</figcaption>
			</figure>
			<figure class="KEYBOARD">
				<input id="key2.mod1" name="key2mod" type="radio"
					checked="" />
				<label for="key2.mod1">Normal</label>
				<input id="key2.mod2" name="key2mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key2.mod2">Shift</label>
				<input id="key2.mod3" name="key2mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key2.mod3">Option</label>
				<input id="key2.mod4" name="key2mod" type="radio" />
				<label for="key2.mod4">Alt</label>
				<table>
					<tbody hidden="">
						<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td
						></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td
						></tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">`</td>
							<td colspan="4">1</td>
							<td colspan="4">2</td>
							<td colspan="4">3</td>
							<td colspan="4">4</td>
							<td colspan="4">5</td>
							<td colspan="4">6</td>
							<td colspan="4">7</td>
							<td colspan="4">8</td>
							<td colspan="4">9</td>
							<td colspan="4">0</td>
							<td colspan="4">-</td>
							<td colspan="4">=</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">q</td>
							<td colspan="4">w</td>
							<td colspan="4">e</td>
							<td colspan="4">r</td>
							<td colspan="4">t</td>
							<td colspan="4">y</td>
							<td colspan="4">u</td>
							<td colspan="4">i</td>
							<td colspan="4">o</td>
							<td colspan="4">p</td>
							<td colspan="4">[</td>
							<td colspan="4">]</td>
							<td colspan="4">?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">a</td>
							<td colspan="4">s</td>
							<td colspan="4">d</td>
							<td colspan="4">f</td>
							<td colspan="4">g</td>
							<td colspan="4">h</td>
							<td colspan="4">j</td>
							<td colspan="4">k</td>
							<td colspan="4">l</td>
							<td colspan="4">;</td>
							<td colspan="4">'</td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">z</td> <!-- iota -->
							<td colspan="4">x</td> <!-- epsilon -->
							<td colspan="4">c</td> <!-- heta -->
							<td colspan="4">v</td> <!-- openoh -->
							<td colspan="4">b</td> <!-- turndel -->
							<td colspan="4">n</td> <!-- turntvee -->
							<td colspan="4">m</td> <!-- upsilon -->
							<td colspan="4">,</td> <!-- hyphen -->
							<td colspan="4">.</td>
							<td colspan="4">/</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">~</td>
							<td colspan="4">|</td>
							<td colspan="4">@</td>
							<td colspan="4">#</td>
							<td colspan="4">$</td>
							<td colspan="4">%</td>
							<td colspan="4">^</td>
							<td colspan="4">&amp;</td>
							<td colspan="4">*</td>
							<td colspan="4">(</td>
							<td colspan="4">)</td>
							<td colspan="4">_</td>
							<td colspan="4">+</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇤</td>
							<td colspan="4">Q</td>
							<td colspan="4">W</td>
							<td colspan="4">E</td>
							<td colspan="4">R</td>
							<td colspan="4">T</td>
							<td colspan="4">Y</td>
							<td colspan="4">U</td>
							<td colspan="4">I</td>
							<td colspan="4">O</td>
							<td colspan="4">P</td>
							<td colspan="4">{</td>
							<td colspan="4">}</td>
							<td colspan="4">!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">A</td>
							<td colspan="4">S</td>
							<td colspan="4">D</td>
							<td colspan="4">F</td>
							<td colspan="4">G</td>
							<td colspan="4">H</td>
							<td colspan="4">J</td>
							<td colspan="4">K</td>
							<td colspan="4">L</td>
							<td colspan="4">:</td>
							<td colspan="4">"</td>
							<td colspan="7">⌤</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">Z</td>
							<td colspan="4">X</td>
							<td colspan="4">C</td>
							<td colspan="4">V</td>
							<td colspan="4">B</td>
							<td colspan="4">N</td>
							<td colspan="4">M</td>
							<td colspan="4">&lt;</td>
							<td colspan="4">&gt;</td>
							<td colspan="4">\</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td colspan="5">⎇</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">ⱶ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꞁ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƕ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꜭ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʃ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ỽ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɂ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʀ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ƣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">∅</td>
							<td colspan="4">&#x2013;</td>
							<td colspan="4">≠</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">ŋ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ꝏ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">∞</td>
							<td colspan="4">þ</td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>¯</u></td>
							<td colspan="4">ʊ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɩ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ɔ</td>
							<td colspan="4">¶</td>
							<td colspan="4">‘</td>
							<td colspan="4">’</td>
							<td colspan="4">¿</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʌ</td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>´</u></td>
							<td colspan="4">ð</td>
							<td colspan="4">æ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ə</td>
							<td colspan="4">ħ</td>
							<td colspan="4">†</td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>^</u></td>
							<td colspan="4">ƛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">…</td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>¨</u></td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">°</td>
							<td colspan="4">ĸ</td>
							<td colspan="4">ç</td>
							<td colspan="4">å</td>
							<td colspan="4">′</td>
							<td colspan="4"><u>˜</u></td>
							<td colspan="4">ꜵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">‹</td>
							<td colspan="4">›</td>
							<td colspan="4">÷</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">Ⱶ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꞁ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƕ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʒ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꜭ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʃ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ỽ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɂ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʀ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ƣ</td>
							<td colspan="4">±</td>
							<td colspan="4">&#x2014;</td>
							<td colspan="4">×</td>
							<td colspan="6">⌦</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="6">⇥</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ŋ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꝏ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɛ</td>
							<td colspan="4">⁓</td>
							<td colspan="4">Þ</td>
							<td colspan="4">¯</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʊ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɩ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ɔ</td>
							<td colspan="4">§</td>
							<td colspan="4">“</td>
							<td colspan="4">”</td>
							<td colspan="4">¡</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="7">⇪</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ʌ</td>
							<td colspan="4">´</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ð</td>
							<td colspan="4">Æ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ə</td>
							<td colspan="4">H</td>
							<td colspan="4">‡</td>
							<td colspan="4">^</td>
							<td colspan="4">ʼ</td>
							<td colspan="4">¬</td>
							<td colspan="4">¨</td>
							<td colspan="7">⏎</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
							<td colspan="4">·</td>
							<td colspan="4">Kʼ</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ç</td>
							<td colspan="4">Å</td>
							<td colspan="4">″</td>
							<td colspan="4">˜</td>
							<td colspan="4">Ꜵ</td>
							<td colspan="4">«</td>
							<td colspan="4">»</td>
							<td colspan="4">¥</td>
							<td colspan="9">⇧</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td colspan="4">⎈</td>
							<td class="ON" colspan="5">⌥</td>
							<td colspan="8">⌘</td>
							<td colspan="20"> </td>
							<td colspan="5">⎋</td>
							<td colspan="4">←</td>
							<td colspan="4">→</td>
							<td colspan="4">↓</td>
							<td colspan="4">↑</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
				<figcaption>
					Prospective Bilingual Modern Sevensi Keyboard Layout
				</figcaption>
			</figure>
		</section>
	</article>
</body>
</html>
